mm 



%^ 



mm 






■*ma» 



^' 








ri 



7/' 








atorttcll Uniocrattg ICihrars 



FROM THE 



BENNO LOEWY LIBRARY 

COLLECTED BY 

BENNO LOEWY 

18S4-1919 
BEQUEATHED TO CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornell University Library 
ML 1731.8.L8L95 



Reminiscences o the opera.By Ben 



amin L 



3 1924 022 334 563 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924022334563 



REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 




'■in/A4 MdiAM 




•iBjWBD Y"! J.BI10-yVK,I''RCM A SKETCH BY COHBl' n ' OKSAY , 



Ion ion. Burst ^^■i^a^v^ii lac/i 



REimiSCENCES OF THE OPEEA. 



BY 



BENJAMIN LUILET, 

TWENTY YEARS DIRECTOR OF HEE MAJESTY'S THEATRE. 



LONDON: 
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS, 

SUCCESSORS TO HENEY COLBURN, 

. 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET. 
1864. 

The, right of Translation is reserved. 



LONDON : 

PMNTED BT MACDONAM) AND TOGWEIl, BLENHEIM HOrSE, 

BLENHEIM STREET, OXPORI> STREET. 



TO HER 



WHO THEOUGH LIFE HAS UNITED A CULTIVATED TASTE IN ART 



WITH A KINDLY SYMPATHY FOE ITS MINISTEES : 



TO 



MRS. GEOTE, 



AS A MAEK OF MY EESPECTFUL ADMIRATION AND REGARD 



FOE ONE 



IN WHOM INTELLECTUAL POWER 



IS TEMPERED BY WOMANLY GRACE AND GENTLENESS, 



THIS VOLUME 



IS BY PERMISSION INSCRIBED. 



INTKODUCTION. 



In offering to the public a record of the administration, 
vicissitudes, splendours, and, I regret to add, decline, of 
the establishment known as " Her Majesty's Theatre," 
I cannot be said to be travelling over familiar ground. 
For it is worthy of remark that, while many bygone 
periods of theatrical history have found their chroniclers,, 
their panegyrists, their enthusiastic remembrancers, the 
space filled by the events of the opera-stage from 1836 
to 1858, has remained without a comprehensive survey, 
without a careful retrospect of its many notable and 
brilliant illustrations. 

To supply this void, to endeavour at once to preserve 
the memories of past grandeurs (already fading with 
the generation who witnessed and enjoyed them), and to 
furnish to the younger portion of the British public some 
conception of what opera has been, in its truly " palmy 
days," I have employed my leisure in putting together 
this history of my twenty years' connection with, per- 
haps, the noblest lyrical theatre of Europe. 

The changes which have overspread modern society, 
vast and manifold as they are admitted to be, are per- 
haps nowhere more perceptible than in the region known 



Viil INTRODUCTION. 

as the Operatic world. To one who has formed a link in 
that chain which formerly connected the higher ranks of 
society with the taste for Lyrical art — with the cultiva- 
tion of the beautiful and imaginative in both music and 
the divine art of dancing, as once practised and admired 
• — to such a one, the contemplation of the altered rela- 
tions now subsisting between the patrons of the Opera 
and the ministers of Art, suggests many painful com- 
parisons. The Opera House — once the resort and the 
"rendezvous" of the elite of rank and "fashion, where ap- 
plause received its direction from a body of cultivated, 
discriminating " cognoscenti," and the treasury of which 
was furnished beforehand by ample subscriptions in reli- 
ance upon the provision to be made by the manager — 
now mainly depends for support upon miscellaneous and 
fluctuating audiences ; audiences composed in great 
part of persons who, in hurried moments of visits to the 
metropolis, attend the opera as a kind of quasi-duty, in 
order to keep pace with the musical chit-chat of the! 
day. 

The Opera, then, once among the prominent features 
of London life with the nobility, no longer fills the same 
important space in the circle of " the season's " enjoy- 
ments. Boxes, which of yore were lent to friends if not 
occupied by the possessor, are now, it is well known, 
sold for the evening to any stranger who wishes to at- 
tend a performance. So that, as a sociable resort of a 
class whose members incline to somewhat exclusive 
habits among themselves, the Opera has ceased to offer 
those agreeable facilities for semi-public, semi-private in- 
tercourse, once so valued by our aristocracy. 



INTRODUCTION, IX 

Again, the increased numbers of those who compose 
the wealthy residents of London, occasion infinitely more 
entertainments to be given in private than formerly ; 
whilst the countless attractions now ofiered during day- 
light hours multiply upon the votaries of fashion, to an 
extent which leaves less and less appetite for pursuits 
connected with Art. Dejeiiners, flower-shows, exhibi- 
tions of all kinds, reviews, afternoon " receptions," and 
the like, occupy young and old ; and, finally, the late 
dinner consumes the space during which the two first 
acts of the opera ought to be going on. 

But amid the various causes which, I regret to think, 
contribute to the lessened importance of the Opera in 
general estimation, none, taken singly, is more deeply 
seated than the fact of there being no new first-rate 
composer in Europe. The dearth of good singers, again, 
-recognised as it must be by all, operates scarcely less 
heavily upon the theatre. Perhaps even the finest operas 
of modern date, such as the "Huguenots" and "Le 
Prophete," are dependent for their attraction upon 
singers of commanding talent. And these become more 
and more rare, alas ! The orchestra, having been aug- 
mented in proportion as vocal talent has waned, now con- 
stitutes the leading feature, especially at Covent Garden, 
where its masses of sound serve but to cover the deficien- 
cies of artists whose voices it should assist and support. 

Not to enlarge further upon circumstances influ- 
encing the decline of Opera in England in these days, 
I will conclude by observing that, although " my Sun 
has set " as a director, the following pages may serve to 
connect my humble name with a series of performances, 



X INTRODUCTION, 

in both Lyric and Choregraphic Art, such as may chal-' 
lenge the glories of any period of the past. And since it 
was my good fortune to be able to bring forward in suc> 
cession so much genius and talent as to excite enthusiasm, 
and kindle the deepest sympathy in the breasts of my 
countrymen and countrywomen, during many memorable 
passages, so it may be permitted to me to recall, with feel- 
ings of just pride, those prosperous days to their memory; 
trusting that the services of the Director, whose stren- 
uous endeavours to maintain the theatre in honourable 
pre-eminence consumed the best years of his life, will 
be borne in mind by those who enjoyed the fruits of 
those endeavours, be they artist, amateur, patron, critic, 
citizen, or tradesman. 

B. L. 

London, June, 1864^ 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

Interest Attached to Her Majesty's Theatre — Difficulties Attending 
the Management of Italian Opera in London — ^Difficulties Arising 
from the Legal Condition of the Property — History of Legal Com- 
pKcations — ^M. Laporte as Manager of Her Majesty's Theatre — My 
First- Connexion with this Gentleman — Character of M. Laporte — 
Anecdotes — ^The Artist's Cabal and its Hindrances — Severini, Mali- 
bran, and Grisi 1 



CHAPTER n. 

Commencement of Cabal on the Part of the Principal Singers — Un- 
successful Attempt to Defeat this by M. Laporte — ^The " Tamburini 
Kow " — ^Importance Attached to the Ballet — Difficulty of Obtaining 
Good Ballets — Legal Embarrassments Arising out of Mr. Chambers' 
Insolvency — Negotiations for Purchase of Theatre — ^M. Laporte's 
Absence in France — His Sudden Death — I am left Executor — 
My Hafity Return to England 12 



CHAPTER III. 

Qualities needed for Governing an Establishmept like that of the Opera 
— Contrast between these and the Character of the late Lessee — The 
Theatres in England Unassisted by Governinent — Serious Nature of 
the Enterprise as Dependent on Individual Resources — Reflections 



XU CONTENTS. 

on my Peculiar Position — ^Advantageous Experience acquired in M. 
Laporte's time — ^Favour shown by the Nobility and others on my 
entering upon the Direction of Her Majesty's Theatre — The Fetes 
at my VOla on the Thames — Their Attraction ... 23 



CHAPTER IV. 

Commencement of the Season of 1842 — Subscription Large and Liberally 
Entered into by Patrons and' Booksellers — Engagements Inherited 
from M. Laporte Renewed — Inability of Madame Grrisi to Fulfil 
Hers — ^Eapid Journey to Italy in Search of a Prima Donna — ^Madame 
FrezzoUni Engaged — Embarrassing Relations with the Artists, Con- 
sequent on the Former Laxity of M. Laporte's Government — Strong 
Company Announced for First Season — The Pre-Paschal Season — 
' ' Gemma di Vergy " — Guaaco — ^Moltini — Negociation with Donizetti 
and Romani for a New Opera 32 



CHAPTER V. 

Season of 1842 (Continued)— The Ballet—" GiseUe"— Carlotta Grisi— 
Persiani — Ronconi's Debut — Madame Moltini in- "Norma" — 
Mario's Refusal to play PoUione — Debut of Madame FrezzoUni — 
Poggi — "Beatrice di Tenda" — "Lucrezia Borgia" — " Torquato 
• Tasso" — Failure of Madame Ronconi —Dissensions among the 
Artists — Success of " Le Cantatrici ViUane " ... 38 



CHAPTER VI. 

Season of 1842 (Continued)^ Visit of the Queen to the Opera after the 
Attempt upon her Life — ^Enthusiasm displayed by Audience- 
Grandeur of the real " Spectacle " — Second Engagement of Made- 
moiselle Rachel at Her Majesty's Theatre — Her Success in "Les 
Horaces" — American Anecdote — Reappearance of Hubini — Undi- 
minished Popularity of this Singer— The " Stabat Mater" of 
Rossini given, with great power, at Her Majesty's Theatre— BaHet 
of "Alma," with Signer Costa's Music, Successful— Illness of 
Madame Persiani— Dissatisfaction of the Audience at the Change of 
Performance— Tumultuous Uproar— The Opera not allowed to 
Proceed— The BaUet alone given— Efforts of the Manager to 
Ensure the Performance of. the Operas announced— Farewell of 
Rubini— Close of the Season of 1842 ..... 48 



CONTENTS. xiii 



CHAPTER VII. 



Auspicious Dawn of the Season of 1843 — The Discordant Elements within 
the Walls Calmed Down through the Agency of Lablache — Strength 
of the Company — ^The Ballet — Splendour of its Composition — 
Rentree of Fanny EUsler — Dissatisfaction of the Vocalists at the 
Prominence given to the BaUet — ^Its Distant Consequences Adverted 
to — The " House " Newly Decorated for the Season of 1843 — 
Opening of the Season in March — " Fops' Alley " — Its Ancient Cha- 
racter Described — Success of Adele DumiMtre — Debut of Fornasari 
— His Success in the " Belisario " of Donizetti — Rentree of Madame 
Grisi and Mario after Easter — " Semiramide" — Brambilla — Produc- 
tion of " Lindat di Chamouni " and " Don Pasquale " . .58 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Season of 1843 (Continued) — The BaUet — Its Remarkable Brilliancy with 
Cerito, F. Ellsler, DumiMtre, Perrot— " State Visit " of Her Majesty 
to the Opera in July — The " Pas de Deux" a Great Feature of the 
Evening — Rivalry of the TwoDanseuses — First AppearanceofCamillo 
Sivori, the Violinist, in England — His Triumphant Success — Lola 
Montez — Her Pretensions to the Rank of a "First Subject "^-Ex- 
posure of their Fallacy — Lola Withdrawn from theBoards of the Opera 
by Myself on Conscientious Grounds — ExigentDemands upon the Ad- 
ministration of the Theatre by Persons of Rank and Influence, as 
well as by Artists — Satisfaction Generally Felt with the Perform- 
ances throughout the Season of 1843 74 



CHAPTER IX. 

Season of 1844 — Continued Prosperity — Countess of Cannazaro's Cook 
— ^Difficulty with Fornasari — Corelli — " Esmeralda " — " Zampa " — 
Failure of Felice — Mademoiselle Favanti — Decline of Fornasari's 
Popularity — Costa's Don Carlos — Ricci's Corrado d^Altamura — 
Strength of the Ballet — Equivocal Success of Moriani — Visit of the 
Emperor Nicholas — The Salvi Row — St. L^on and the Private Box — 
Musical Tact of Diplomatists — Sound and Colour ... 80 



xiv CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER X. 

Prospects of 1845 — ^The Singers provided of a high class — ^Dancers 
equally eminent — Theatre opens -with "Ernani" — Doubtful 
appreciation of Verdi's Music in England — His claims to approval 
set forth — ^Difficulty of engrafting a new style upon English 
taste — Examples — Debut of Lucille Grahn — First appearance of 
Madame Castellan — The "Viennoises" — History of their engage- 
ment — Obstacles thrown in the way by the Austrian Grovenmient — 
Real grounds of objection disclosed — The BaJUet in high favour 
— ^Taglioni once more appears in "La Sylphide" — ^The "Pas de 
Quatre" devised — ^Dilemma, arising from unwiUuigness to com- 
mence on the part of each Danseuse — How solved by Director — 
Fame of the Pas de Quatre . . . , . . 101 



CHAPTER XI. 

Season of 1845 (Continued) — ^Barroilhet and Rossi Caccia— " Roberto 
Devereux " — ^Dissensions with Grisi and Mario — ^The box grievances 
— Survey of affairs — Vexatious attacks on the Management by in- 
dividual Complainants — ^Financial prosperity — ^I purchase the lease 
of Her Majesty's Theatre — ^Testimonial offered by the Artists on that 
occasion 119 

CHAPTER Xn. 

Season of 1846-:-The Theatre embellished anew — Germs of disagreement 
between the Direction and Signor Costa — Retirement of the latter 
from his post in the Orchestra — Grounds of the rupture between 
him and the Director — ^Mr. Balf e appointed in place of Signor Costa 
— ^Rumours relative to the rise of a Rival Establishment — Symptoms 
of secession on the part of La Vieille Garde — Lablache holds fast by 
"Her Majesty's" — ^Efforts made to bring back Rubini — Verdi's 
Music advances in Popular Estimation — He undertakes to compose 
an opera for Her Majesty's Theatre, but fails on accoxmt of Hi- 
health — "Nabucco," its success — Remarks on the injurious effect of 
alterations in the Story — The old Repertoire resumed, with the 
leading Artists, after Easter, with the addition of "I Lombard! " 
of Verdi — Furious opposition waged against Verdi — ^The libretto bad 
— The Ballet of "LaUa Rookh," splendid decorations bestowed upon 
it — Arrival of TagUoni — "La Gitana" — "Pas des Ddesses" — 
Review of the Season, ending with a " Row" at the Theatre — Early 
negotiations with Jenny Lind 132 



CONTENTS. XV 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Autumn of 1846 — Rise of the rival opera at Covent Garden — Se- 
cession of the leading Artists from the " Old House " — Difficul- 
ties of organising a new Company — The Orchestra broken up in part 
by the change of Conductor — Engagement of Mademoiselle Jenny 
Lind as prima donna at Her Majesty's Theatre — Expectations afloat 
relative to a new Opera by Dr. Felix Mendelssohn — Obstacles to the 
appearance of Jenny Lind — Season of 1847 — Contract with Mr. 
Bunn — Objections raised by the Authorities to the production of 
the Opera of "Robert leDiable" — How surmounted — The opening 
nlght-^Gardoni — Rosati in a new Ballet .... l.'je 



CHAPTER XIV. 

Season of 1847 (Continued) — Performance on behalf of distressed Irish — 
Nino — Coletti — Fraschini's debut in "Lucia di Lammermoor" — 
Doubts concerning the arrival of Jenny Lind — ^Measures adopted by 
the Director to overcome her hesitation — His journey to Vienna — 
Opening of the Royal Italian Opera, Covent Garden — Lucille Grahn 
— ^Prevalence of sickness among the Artists ; influenza — Certain 
Advent of Jenny Lind announced — Her arrival in England — Her 
first appearance as Alice in " Robert le Diable" — Warm reception 
given to her — Unbounded applause at plose of Performance 175 



CHAPTER XV. 

Season of 1847 (Continued) — Successful course of the Establishment, 
aided by the Popularity of the Swedish Nightingale — A new opera 
by Verdi — Not generally approved by the Public — ^Resumption of 
the old " Repertoire " — Unprecedented enthusiasm excited by Jenny 
Lind'sperformance — The Ballet — ^Well sustained by first-rate Artists 
— Departure of Jenny Lind — Regret of the Public — Trial of Bunn 
V. lind adjourned — Doubtful success of Covent Garden Season — 
Cordial support afforded to the Manager— -Valuable Testimonial 
presented to him — F6te at the Director's Residence — Quality of the 
Company Invited — ^Noble and Artistic Melange — Close of the Season 
— My Departure for the Continent — ^My first impression of the young 
Prima Donna, Sophie Cruvelli, at Rovigo — Opinion of her Talent 
held by Rubini 187 



xvi CONTENTS-i 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Season of 1848— Sophie Cruvelli— Belletti— Cuzzani— The Ballet "Fi- 
orita " — Verdi's ' ' Attila " — Abbadia— Sophie Vera — Performance for 
the Benefit of Distressed Artisans — Labocetta — Reappearance of 
Jenny Lind — ^The Farewell Night — Tadolini — " Les Quatre Saisons " 
— Decline of the Ballet — Jenny Lind's determination to quit the 
Stage 206 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Approach of the Season of 1849 — Uncertainty respecting the Engage- 
ment of Jenny Lind — Rumours about the influence exercised on 
her by persons of social eminence — ^The real facts of the case — ^The 
Journey to Paris — The meeting with Catalani — Digression — ^Notes 
on Rossini 230 



CHAPTER XVin. 

Season of 1849 — Engagement of Alboni, Parodi, and Frezzolini for the 
season of 1849 — Efficiency of the " troupe," as a whole — G-iuhani — 
Debut of Mademoiselle Parodi — Interest taken in her success by 
Madame Pasta — Jenny Lind consents to sing, in the Theatre, 
the opera of " 11 Flauto Magico,"of Mozart — Incomplete success of 
the performance — Jenny lind reappears in Operar-^Delight of the 
audience at her return to the boards — Her farewell night described — 
The Director is led to hope that Madame Sontag may return to the 
lyric stage— Good offices of M. Thalberg in bringing this to an 
issue . 239 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Provincial Tour of Mademoiselle Sontag — A Railway Accident — Sontag 
Concerts in Paris — Difficulty in obtaining the Salle du Con- 
servatoire — Kindness of the President Louis Napoleon — Great suc- 
cess of the Concerts — Resuscitation of the Faubourg St. Germain — 
Season of 1850 — Parodi in " Medea " — Reappearance of Sims 
Reeves — Catherine Hayes — Baucarde — " La Temp^ta," by Hal^vy 
and Scribe — ^Fgte at the "Chancellors" — Reappearance of Pasta — 
The "Black Malibran "— iJeftwi of Fiorentini — Direction of the 
" Italiens " at Paris— New Difficulties — Victor Hugo and Rachel 261 



CONTENTS. XVU 



CHAPTER XX. 

The Great Exhibition in Hyde Park — Preparations for the Entertain- 
ment of " All Nations " by the Opera Management — Opening of 
the Theatre with Caroline Duprez — Her Reception — Production of 
"Gustavus ni."— The "Muta di Portici," with Mdlle. Monti— 
Her Talent as a Mime — Rentree of Madame Sontag — " Gala " Re- 
presentation, to celebrate the Opening of the Exhibition — " Le Tre 
Nozze" of Alary " mounted " — Its Success — "Don Giovanni" — Sims 
Reeves — Return of Sophie Cruvelli — " Fideho " brought out for 
the first time at Her Majesty's Theatre — Obliging Conduct of the 
leading Singers in assisting to give Effect to the " Chorus of Pri- 
soners" — ^The Opera very successful — The "Enfant Prodigue" of 
Auber strongly cast — ^Madame Ugalde — Production of " Florinda" 
by M. Thalberg — ^Its Effect diminished by the dulness of the " Li- 
bretto "—State Visit of the Queen to "The Old House "—Bar- 
bieri-Nini — BaUe's Opera — Fete at my Villa . 296 



CHAPTER XXI. 

The Season of 1852 — Artists in Prospect — Mdlle. Wagner, Mdme. 
Sontag, Gardoni, Beletti, &c. — Disappointment created by Sontag's 
Inability to come to England — Opening Night, ^yn\ 1st, with 
"Maria di Rohan" — Ferlotti— The Wagners' Bre^h of Engage- 
ment, caused by Mr. Gye's Endeavours to attach Mdlle. Wagner to 
the Covent Garden " Troupe " — Unfounded Rumours of Desertion 
on the Part of Leading Artists — Injurious Effects of the Wagner 
Failure — The Friends of the Theatre hold a Meeting, with a View 
to support the Director — High Quality of the Parties concerned 
in this Movement — Resolutions adopted at the Meeting — ^Tendency 
of the Arrangement come to, not wholly Advantageous — ^Madame 
Lagrange, her Value at this juncture — Illusory Hopes of Sontag's 
Return towards End of Season— Madame Charton engaged— Pro- 
duction of "Casilda" in August — ^Not successful — Close of the 
Season, under uneasy Auguries . . • 327 



CHAPTER XXn. 

Schemes for renovating the Prosperity of the Opera— An " Associa- 
tion " contemplated, to carry it on as a Joint-stock Company— 
DifSculty of legalizing such an Association— The Earl Dudley— 

h 



XVUl CONTENTS. 

His first Connexion with the Theatre — His Lordship and Sir Ralph 
Howard step forward to prevent the Dispersion of the " proper- 
ties " — Indications afforded of Lord Dudley's views : viz., of taking 
the Management of the Opera — ^Kegociations opened with leading 
Artists accordingly — Alarmed by the Conduct of the principal 
Creditors, Lord Dudley renounces the Design — Retrospect of 
the embarrassing Course of Affairs during previous year — ^Into- 
lerable Hardship of the Legal Persecution — Efforts made to 
obtain possession of " Her Majesty's Theatre" by Mr. Gye — 
Mr. Benedict's Views on the Theatre — Abandoned on account of 
the Complexity of its Obligations — The Theatre remains Closed 
from 1852 to 1856 — Covent Garden Opera House Burnt down, 
March, 1856 — My Return to London — Revival of Her Majesty's 
Theatre — ^I resume the Direction of the Opera — Controlling Autho- 
rity exercised by Lord Dudley, now become the principal Creditor 
of the Establishment — Necessity compels me to part with my 
Lease to my noble Patron — Reluctance mitigated by the Assurances 
of Lord Dudley's Resolution to take no Advantage of his Position 
— ^Lord Dudley Underlets the Theatre for a Term of Tears 
— Harassing Litigation — Final Appeal of the vexatious Eject- 
ment Suit pending in the House of Lords — Anxious Situation 
prior to the Reopening of the Theatre in 1856 . . 350 

CHAPTER XXm. 

Hasty Preparations for Reopening Her Majesty's Theatre — MdUe. 
Johanna Wagner engaged again — Surprise consequent upon this 
Announcement — Effective Character of the new " Company " — 
The Director's " Address " issued to the Subscribers and the Public 
— The opening night in May described — General Satisfaction 
of the Patrons of the Opera with the renewed Activity of the 
Management — Mournful Absence of Lablache, struck by Mortal 
Sickness — Alboni's Return — Dehut of Mdlle. Piccolomini — Her 
Remarkable position on the Stage — Her Great Success — ^Maric 
Taglioni, MM. Charles and Vauders in Ballet — Dehut of MdUe. 
Wagner in "Romeo" — Her Merits, what? — Successful Course 
of Affairs — ^Durable Attraction of Piccolomini — Anecdotes of 
Lablache ... . ... 365 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

Brief Notice of the " Jullien Concerts" at the Opera House, in 1856 — 
The Bal Masque — Comments of the Press thereon — Departure of 



CONTENTS. Xix 

the Director for Italy — Mdlle. Ortolani — Her Qualifications for 
the Stage set forth by Correspondents — Verdi invited to produce a 
New Opera, "Imogen" — Engagement of Signer Giuglini, and 
Mdlle. Pocchini, the " Italian Danseuse " — ^The English Minister at 
Turin — Introduces Me to Count Cavour— Conversation with the 
Count on the Journey from Turin — Visits to various Cities, unpro- 
ductive of Results — Death of Artists of Merit — Altered Character 
of the Opera Audiences — ^A wider Range of Support given by the 
General Public than that hitherto afforded by the Aristocratic 
Class — ^This Element less certain than the old " Subscription " as a 
Source of Profit — Activity of the Competition between the two 
Opera Establishments — Constancy of the British People to their 
favourite Artists — Giuglini — Anecdote concerning him . 391 



CHAPTER XXV. 

Ample " Bill of Fare " provided for the Season of 1857 — Cordial Ap- 
proval of the Same by the Subscribers — Opening Night — ^Brilliant 
Debut of Signer GiugUni — His Reception Flattering — ^MdUe. 
Spezia — ^Pocchini — The BaUet ; eclipsed by the Lyric Artist's Success 
— Rentree of Piccolomini — Warmly welcomed by Audience — 
Ortolani — Her Merits described — Predominant Attraction of Picco- 
lomini — Mdme. Alboni — Her Vocal Perfection — Signer Corsi's 
Dihut — The Opera of " Don Giovanni" produced with strong Cast 
— ^Its Attraction — New Work brought out for Rosati, " Mario 
Spada" — Vexatious Incidents in reference to the Claims of inferior 
Danseuses to prominent Positions — Arrival of Marie Taghoni — 
Close of the Season — Extra Performances — The Marchesa Piccolo- 
mini's interference in Mdlle. Piccolomini's Affairs — Good Feeling 
displayed by the Latter towards the Management — Giuglini True 
and Loyal also— Solid Success of the Operatic Season, Discouraging 
Circumstances notvrithstanding — The Winter Operas . 403 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Director's visit to Vienna, in view of the Season of 1858— Engagement 
of MdUe. Tietjens for Her Majesty's Theatre — Prince Mettemich — 
His Kindness towards me — His love of Music — Harassing uncertain- 
ties as to the Result of the Appeal to the House of Lords — Sudden 
change in the conduct of Lord Ward — His peremptory demands of 
Payment of Rent— I give up my last Rights over the Property to 
Appease my Creditor — Opening Night of the Season, April 13th — 
Giuglini and Tietjens in the " Huguenots"— A Brilliant Success— 



XX CONTENTS. 

The " Trovatore," with Tietjens and Alboni — ^Piccolomini still com- 
mands the Favour of the Public — " La Serva Padrona" brought out 
for her — Borne down by successive Reverses, I resolve on Retiring 
from my Arduous and now Dependent Position — Possession of the 
Theatre given up to Lord Ward's Agent, 1858 — Consolation 
afforded me by the Retrospect of my Career and the Attachment of 
my Friends 428 



REimiSCENCES OF THE OPERA. 



CHAPTER I. 

Interest Attached to Her Majesty's Theatre— Difficulties Attending 
the Management of Italian Opera in London — Difficulties Arising 
from the Legal Condition oithe Property — History of Legal Com- 
plications — M. Laporte as Manager of Her Majesty's Theatre — My 
First Connexion with this Gentleman — Character of M. Laporte— 
Anecdotes — ^The Artist's Cabal and its Hindrances — Severini, Mali- 
bran, and Grisi. 

The ancient sympathies attached to the fortunes of the 
old historical Italian Opera-house, once the " King's 
Theatre," now generally known by the name of " Her 
Majesty's Theatre," have still, in spite of the establish- 
ment of a second Italian opera, so strong a hold upon 
the minds of a vast portion of the musical and fashion- 
able circles of London society, that a history of a 
management which occupied a striking and signal period 
of its existence, cannot fail to command a considerable 
share of interest. 

The history of the management of any great theatre 
devoted to operatic performances has its importance, 
as that of a mighty state in the realm of art ; and some 
interest as well as curiosity must always attach not 
only to the government of its ruler and the fortunes of 



2 REMmfsCENCES OF- THE OPERA. 

his rule, but. to the career of a man who, in his operatic 
world, may be regarded as the venturous leader of an 
army in a troubled country, or as one of the boldest of 
mariners on a stormy and dangerous ocean. And no- 
where has the manager to struggle with such fearful 
hazards as in England. 

A great operatic establishment in this country, unlike 
similar enterprises on the Continent, is and must remain 
a matter of, whether individual or collective, private 
speculation. In other countries the enormous expenses 
of operatic undertakings are often lightened to managers 
by Government subventions. In some cases the operatic 
theatres are court theatres, kept up by grants from civil 
lists, or are wholly in the hands of the head of the 
state ; or they are supported by municipal bodies, as is 
the case with many of the smaller continental theatres. 
But Parliaments in our constitutional country are 
chary of granting public monies for theatres as schools 
of art ; while, at the same time, there scarcely exists a 
single operatic theatre that has been successfully sup- 
ported without either government or municipal aid. 
An operatic manager in England is consequently obliged 
to take the whole risks of a vast speculation upon his 
own shoulders, and is subjected to certain difficulties un- 
known in foreign countries ; difficulties which will be 
treated of as this narrative proceeds. 

The management of Her Majesty's Theatre and all 
the affairs connected with it have ever been seriously 
obstructed by the complications of an almost inextricable 
tangle, arising from the legal condition of the property. 
This was one of hopeless confusion, which the original 
legal title, the disputes respecting possession, and the 
interminable lawsuits arising from jarring interests, ren- 



ORIGINAL LEASE. 3 

dered "twice confounded." In the history soi. property, 
there has probably been no parallel instance wherein the 
legal labyrinth has been so difficult to thread. Bold 
must have been the man then, who would adventure 
into the midst of a thorny thicket, whence each succes- 
sive clue put into his hands as a guide seemed less 
rightly adapted than the preceding one to lead him to 
the light of day ! 

Impossible though it would be to give any clear 
detail or explanatory plan of this labyrinth, a succinct 
sketch of its leading peculiarities may be considered in- 
dispensable to a right understanding of many points 
upon which it will be hereafter necessary to touch in 
this " History of Management." 

The ground on which the " King's Theatre " was 
built formed a part of the demesnes of the Crown, 
and was originally leased to a Mr. Holloway for a term, 
which was eventually extended by a further grant to the 
year 1891* — the audience portion of the theatre and 
that occupied by the stage being held, it would appear, 
on separate leases.f The theatre, when built, was let in 
the first place to a Mr. Taylor, who introduced the 
system of selling, from time to time, for a term of years, 
a certain number of the boxes to frequenters of the 
theatre, as " property boxes." Mr. Taylor sold various 
portions of his property and subsequently mortgaged 
the remainder to a Mr. Goold, who assumed the direction 
soon after ; and, upon the death of this latter gentle- 
man, there began the series of disputes and consequent 

* One of the conditions being that the lessee should erect a 
theatre on the ground, 

f The lease, which was subsequently granted to me, placed the 
two in the same position. 

b2 



4 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Chancery suits from which the property, during a long 
period, was never exempt. Differences arose between 
Taylor, the manager, and Waters, the executor of Mr. 
Goold, which called forth the interference of Chancery, 
and were continued, with oscillating fortunes, between 
the two parties, until eventually the whole property was 
purchased by Waters, and then mortgaged by him for 
the purpose of raising the purchase money, to Mr. Cham- 
bers, the banker. Embarrassments, however, came over 
the venture of Mr. Waters, and the property was seized 
under an execution at the suit of Chambers, who sub- 
sequently became the sole proprietor. The bankruptcy 
of Mr. Chambers occurred shortly afterwards, and the 
most grievous complications arose from the pertinacity 
with which that gentleman refused to accept the position 
of bankrupt. Inextricable disputes with assignees and 
other claimants next ensued, and, from this time — indeed 
from the very first establishment of the theatre — the 
law, with its baleful influence, has scarcely ever ceased 
to hover over its walls. 

At this juncture, Mr. Ebers the bookseller, who had 
long been connected with the affairs of the theatre, was 
urged by the box-proprietors and subscribers to under- 
take the management of the opera, and he accordingly 
did so, with varying fortunes during seven years ; relin- 
quishing it finally, as a losing concern, to be replaced by 
Messrs, Laporte and Laurent. The connexion of M. 
Laurent with the opera-house was soon severed, and it 
fell under the sole management of M. Laporte, a cele- 
brated French actor, and in many respects a remarkable 
man. 

It was at this stage of the history that my first con- 
nexion with the establishment — a connexion destined to 



FIRST CONNEXION WITH LAPORTE. 5 

exercise a lasting influence on my life and fortunes — arose, 
without the faintest anticipation on my part of the 
important results to which that first slender link was 
to lead. 

It was in the year 1835, that, having just commenced 
business practice as a Solicitor and Parliamentary Agent, 
I was requested by M. Laporte to assist him in a legal 
capacity. The tenant and manager was at that period 
involved in serious embarrassments, which led shortly 
afterwards to his arrest and incarceration in the Fleet 
prison, wherein, by a singular coincidence, Mr. Cham- 
bers was also at that very time a prisoner. As the 
new legal adviser of the distressed manager I was, how- 
ever, fortunate enough to be able (by representing to 
his creditors that the imprisonment of a debtor whose 
means of payment could only be derived from his per- 
sonal exertions, was not the best method of securing a 
favourable result to themselves), to obtain his discharge 
after a very few days. The arrest and detention, how- 
ever, hastened a crisis, which resulted in the bankruptcy 
of Laporte. But at the same time the assignees, hav- 
ing learned by experience how much the value of the 
property depended upon the judgment and knowledge 
of the director, did their best to keep the theatre 
virtually in the hands of Laporte, by granting a year's 
lease of it to his own father, with the express stipulation 
that the son should have the sole and entire direction of 
the operatic affairs. His management, therefore, con- 
tinued without interruption, although during this period 
he passed through the Bankruptcy Court. In the fol- 
lowing year he resumed the character of lessee, and 
continued to manage the theatre. 

The commencement of the season of 1836 then, found 



G REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Laporte once more in undisputed possession of the the- 
atre and of its direction. The financial and business 
part of the establishment had been for some time past 
in the greatest disorder. An active assistant, uniting a 
spirit of order to legal and financial knowledge, was 
needed, to bring the chaos into an intelligible and 
working form. The confidence inspired in Laporte by 
the services I had rendered him, induced him now to 
urge me to undertake the superintendence of the finan- 
cial department of the theatre. Won over by this 
earnest solicitation, influenced, probably, by love of art, 
flattered and gratified, as any one might have been, by 
the confidence of a man so highly gifted as was M. 
Laporte with talent and ready wit, I at length con- 
sented to postpone my intention of going to the Bar (for 
which I was then studying with my tutor and esteemed 
friend, Mr. Basil Montagu), and to accept the duties 
thus pressed upon me. It could not but be gratifying 
to an aspirant just entering life, that a man like 
Laporte, whose unpopularity, arising from a thorough 
independence of character and scorn of petty observ- 
ances, and whose mistrust of all around him, in a position 
where intrigue and deceit met him at every turn, had 
well-nigh rendered misanthropical, should unreservedly 
bestow on him his confidence, seek his counsel, and 
bend to his influence.* 

Not a step of any consequence was henceforth taken 
without my advice being sought by Laporte. There 
exists an anecdote to the effect that, when observations 

* A journey with Laporte through Germany and the North 
of Italy, in which pleasure was united with the search after 
artistic novelties, confirmed the mutual consideration that had thus 
sprung up, and which ended only with Laporte's death. 



CHARACTER OF LAPORTE. 7 

were made to Laporte ou this strange confiding of all 
his best interests to one so young, his invariable reply- 
would be, "He is not yet old enough to have been 
spoiled. Voila /" 

Once thus engaged, I was quickly drawn into 
the artistic vortex about me and gradually initiated 
into the science of management ; and I not only 
acquired the experience, without which no such 
enterprise can be suitably conducted, but was enabled 
to study the faults, the foibles, and deviations from right 
judgment which were observable in the director's course. 
The knowledge thus gained was insensibly fitting me for 
the position I was afterwards destined to fill, although 
at that period I should have regarded it as improbable, 
and even undesirable, to the last degree. 

Subject as he was to occasional periods of despondency 
and depression, M. Laporte unquestionably exercised a 
considerable influence over the minds of those around 
him by his vivacity, his clearsightedness, his knowledge 
of the world, and that independence of spirit which 
was among his better qualities, although it sometimes 
so much overcame his discretion as to create for him 
bitter enemies. An anecdote may be permitted here, 
perhaps, as singularly characteristic of his clearsighted- 
ness and humour combined. One day a great artist 
(a very great artist) engaged at the theatre, called on 
him, apparently in a violent rage, respecting some 
subject in dispute. 

"I see what it is, my dear L.," said Laporte, tranquilly, 
"your wife has ordered you to put yourself in a 
pjassion!" 

The humour with which this remark was made tickled 
the artist ; he burst out laughing, and replied^ 



8 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

" This is too bad ! I came here for a row, and it is 
not fair to disappoint me." 

Scarcely less characteristic of the man was Laporte's 
retort upon the Cerito. This celebrated danseuse was 
constantly exhibiting a jealousy of fancied privileges 
and preferences shown to Taglioni. On her once sending 
back the ticket of a box (which had been given her 
upon an upper tier), with the remark that she was "much 
too young to be exalted to the skies before her proper 
time," M, Laporte, who had given a box on the same 
tier to Taglioni, replied that he "had done his best, but 
that possibly he had been wrong in placing the lady on the 
same level ^e mSme rang) with Mademoiselle Taglioni." 

His independence of spirit is evidenced by a letter 
to me, in which he complains of obstructions to his 
management, created, as was alleged, in the highest 
quarters^ " I cannot suppose," he writes of a commu- 
nication just received, " that it really emanates from the 
Queen ;* but whether it does or not, such a system of 
incessant annoyance must be met in a decisive manner. 
. . . We must concoct a letter, very respectful, but the 
purport of which is to make the Queen, or thos^e who 
pretend to act under her name, understand that there is 
between sovereign and subject a line, which neither have 
a right to overpass. I have been at war all my life with 
the Semiramides, Anna Bolenas, and such queens ; but 
I really did not expect to have the honour to oppose a 
real, living, natural queen." 

Together with his very valuable qualities, however, 
M. Laporte's' management was characterised by dilatori- 

* Laporte was right. Her Majesty's august name was then un- 
justifiably uied — as it has often been subsequently by parties whose 
access to the palace gave colour to their assertions. 



ARTIST CABAL. 9 

ness, and above all by a waywardness of humour, in- 
duced probably by impaired health. He would abandon 
for a time important resolutions and necessary rules for 
the preservation of his authority in the theatre, and 
resume them only by fits and starts, bearing the appear- 
ance of caprice. 

There is no doubt that in a great measure he possessed 
the key to the sympathy of his "subjects," and would, 
on most occasions, persuade an artist to comply with his 
requirements ; but towards the latter years of his life, 
he had become deficient in the art of enforcing discipline, 
and of maintaining order in the establishment. Accord- 
ingly, the troupe followed the dictates of their own 
caprices or their respective personal interests, regardless 
of the general welfare of the opera ; whilst a few of the 
principal artists, finding themselves encouraged and sup- 
ported in their course by some young men of fashion 
outside the walls, gradually acquired an unreasonable 
and confessedly mischievous influence over the manage- 
ment of the theatre. 

It was this cabal, amounting in the little kingdom of 
the Opera to a revolutionary conspiracy, continually 
fighting for mastery over the master, which, it will be 
seen, led the way to the memorable " secession," and to 
the establishment of a second Italian Opera. From all 
the evidence afforded by the annals of the theatre at this 
period, it would scarcely be unreasonable, much less 
cruel, to suppose that the constant insubordination, the 
incessant annoyances, and the wear and tear of mind, 
occasioned by the habitual conflicts between manager 
and artists, materially hastened the death of M. Laporte. 
It is sufficiently well attested that the director Was 
scarcely allowed a voice in the selection of operas, or 



10 REMINISCENCES OE THE OPERA. 

even in the choice of the artists to be employed. Oppor- 
tune "colds" and "indispositions" had to be accepted as 
reasons for change of performances and refusal of "parts," 
whenever it suited caprice, or desire to thwart, on the 
part of any one of the powerful cabal ; until the term 
"singer's illness" passed into a proverb. 

This distracted state of government, or mis-govern- 
ment, M. Laporte was destined to leave to his successor 
as one of many difficulties to be overcome ; and the 
" History of a Management " will have to dwell fre- 
quently, and at some length, upon the intrigues of a 
clique, then generally termed, in operatic . circles. La 
Vieille Garde. For in assuming the reins of govern- 
ment, he found himself at the very outset obliged to guide 
a "team," the individuals composing which were always 
rearing, plunging, and " kicking over the traces," at the 
imminent risk of upsetting the whole opera chariot at any 
moment. 



Before concluding this chapter, I may be allowed a digression 
in the shape of an anecdote of Severini, director of the ItaUens in 
Paris, which will illustrate the tyranny of artists. Severini had 
occasion to be greatly displeased with Madame Malibran, and 
animadverted on her conduct in severe terms. The Diva, conscious 
of her power over the subscribers and the public, and believing that 
the theatre could not go on vrithouther, observed — " Sir, if you are 
dissatisfied vnth me, the remedy is easy. Let us cancel our engage- 
ment." " Tres bien, Madame," replied Severini, drily, and, sending 
for his " double" of the engagement, he requested the astonished 
Diva to hand over her own duplicate, or counterpart thereof, and 
having placed one within the other, he coolly and leisurely tore 
them into pieces. 

Kossini, whose direction of the music spread a lustre over the 
establishment, observed to the manager — " You have sacrificed 
100,000 francs a year." "That may be," said Severini, " but I 
prefer to secure my peace of mind." 



GIDLIA 6RISI. 11 

Malibran, then in the zenith of her power, knew not that ano- 
ther star was soon to rise above the horizon, and rival her own 
lustre. Giulia Grisi was singing at Milan, the Adelgisa to Pasta's 
Noi-ma — ^this opera having, not long before, been written by 
Bellini for Pasta, Grisi, and Donzelli, the great tenore-serio of the 
day. Severini sent in hot haste to Milan — theji, as now, the artistic 
mart of Italy ; and four of the most promising young " soprani " 
were despatched to him in Paris. Three were tried without success ; 
but Grisi, one of the four, soon gave tokens of excellence. 

Grisi was at that time, it must be said, far from realising all 
that a connoisseur could have desired ; but her voice and beauty 
pleaded for her, and she interested the public, whilst the advantage 
of singing at the side of such artists as Rubini and Lablache was 
incontestable. She was ere long accepted, and adopted by the Pari- 
sians as a child of their own creation, and, in 1 834, her performance 
in "I Puritani" (written by Bellini for her as prima donna, and 
for Rubini, Tamburini, and Lablache in the other parts), raised her 
to the very summit of stage popularity, 



12 



CHAPTER 11. 

Commencement of Cabal on the Part of the Principal Singers — Un- 
successful Attempt to Defeat this by M. Laporte — The " Tamburini 
Row '' — Importance Attached to the Ballet — Difficulty of Obtaining 
Good Ballets — Legal Embarrassments Arising out of Mr. Chambers' 
Insolvency — Negotiations for Purchase of Theatre — ^M. Laporte's 
Absence in France — His Sudden Death — I am left Executor— 
My Hasty Return to England. 

So intimately was I mixed up with all the latter period 
of the management of Laporte, that references to the 
more important events of my predecessor's last seasons 
are necessary to a right understanding of my own direc- 
tion. This period, indeed, almost furnishes a clue to 
the history of my future rule, and must be fully dwelt 
upon, just as the latter years of a reigning sovereign 
must in some degree be taken into consideration in 
any account of the accession of his heir. 

More than all was the influence of the powerful clique 
of artists, already mentioned in the preceding chapter, 
fated to give a direct bias to the fortunes of the succeeding 
management. The latter period, then, of the Laporte 
management was a stormy one within doors. The 
working of the volcano was displayed before the public 
in an explosion, familiarly known, at the time, as the 
" Tamburini row," but never understood in all its 
hidden bearings, except by a very few initiated in 



" LA VIEILLE GARDE." 13 

operatic matters. The manoeuvres of la vieille garde, 
which produced this strange and violent result, have yet 
to be explained. 

Instinctively aware, probably, of the force and truth 
of the old parable of the bundle of sticks, the clique of 
artists had determined that the best way of ensuring 
to themselves supreme power in the government of the 
opera, was to found a close coalition, and a conspiracy 
to " stick together." It was resolved that they should 
announce their determination to resist every effort of 
the director to vary the composition of the Phalanx, by 
declaring that not one of them would engage singly — in 
other words, that M. Laporte must agree to take them 
collectively, or not at all. The prima donna, who was 
looked upon as the " head and front " of the coalition, 
had confessed as much to the manager, although she 
declared that she had reserved to herself the right of act- 
ing separately whenever she chose. The plan appears to 
have been based upon the prospective engagement of all 
the artists in a body by M. Marliani, on behalf of the 
Paris Director, a combination which would have com- 
pelled M. Laporte to refer and defer entirely to that 
gentleman. Fully cognisant of this arrangement, worried 
beyond all powers of endurance, by the annoyances, the 
obstructions, and the insolence of " the Cabal," M. 
Laporte had, at one time, determined to commence the 
season of 1842 with an entirely new company. In one 
of his extant letters, he writes of his intention to get rid 
of the " blessed lot." Meanwhile, as early as 1840, he 
resolved upon making a beginning towards breaking up 
the clique and foiling their schemes, by the non- 
engagement of one of their number. Tamburini was 
fixed upon for this purpose, as his place could be 



14 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

supplied by Coletti, then one of the most popular 
singers in Italy. Determined not to be thus thwarted, 
the vieille garde resolved on war — not open war, which 
would have put them in the wrong with the public, and 
popular opinion — but a guerilla warfare, which was to 
be carried on behind a screen of noble " lay figures." 

Madame Grisi, at that time in the zenith of her 
beauty and her artistic fame, held in allegiance 
beneath her fair, soft sceptre, a whole string of young 
fashionables of the day, over whom she had acquired an 
extraordinary influence. At the head of this group 
was a noble Viscount, whose duel with her husband, 
M. de Melcy, had furnished one of the notable scandals 
of the town, and whose partizanship in the battle about 
to be fought she scorned to deny. These, then, were 
the skirmishers, ready to aid the campaign of a com- 
mander who could direct the manoeuvres, although 
unable to appear openly in the field. For this purpose 
no better " Lieutenant " could be desired than the 
noble Lord already referred to ; and it is M'ell known 
that the plan of attack was arranged in the House of 
Commons, of which he was at that time a member. 
Thus Madame Grisi, " like another Helen, fired another 
Troy," by the hands of her allies, who, it is to be pre- 
sumed, were proud of the rank they held in the en- 
counter. 

It is probable that as the vieille garde were absent 
in Paris on the first appearance of Coletti, it was 
deemed advisable to do no more than put forward a 
" feeler." This much is certain, that upon the opening 
of the season of 1841, no open hostility was manifested. 
Coletti (who appeared in the part of Torquato Tasso) 
was received, it is true, with a few hisses and calls for 



"the TAMBURINI ROW." 15 

■" Tamburini," but these demonstrations were quickly- 
put down by the better sense of the great majority of the 
house. The scheme had not yet been "pushed." On the 
next appearance of Coletti, however, the explosion, so 
carefully prepared, took place. The famous omnibus 
boxes were filled, towards the conclusion of the opera, 
with the fashionable allies of the coalition ; and it was 
from this quarter that, on the fall of the curtain, the 
uproar first commenced. Shouts of " Tamburini ! " 
"Laporte!" "Tamburini!" were taken up and echoed 
by partisans, and easily-led public clamourers, in various 
parts of the house ; whilst many of the genuine public 
raised the counter cries of "Shame!" "No intimidation!" 
" Don't be bullied ! " and even evidenced their sense of 
the real cause of the disturbance by shouting " Turn 
out the omnibus ! " responded to by the occupants with 
cries of " You had better try !" Several times M. 
Laporte appeared, and endeavoured to address the 
audience, but the deafening clamour rendered him 
inaudible. Tells, hisses, shouts, overpowered every 
other sound, A sort of stormy conference took place, 
during this scene of confusion, between the manager 
and the tenants of the omnibus boxes, whose rage 
seemed to increase as the "row" warmed their blood. 
The curtain at last rose upon the ballet. Cerito was 
that evening to have made her first appearance. For 
more than an hour the scared coryphees stood ready to 
begin. In vain ! For the fourth time M. Laporte 
appeared. He seemed to have succumbed, for, in 
answer to direct appeals on the point, he promised to 
make propositions to Tamburini. But even this did not 
appear sufficient to the originators of the row. They 
still hooted, and, at last, the whole party of the noble 



16 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

and fashionable occupants of the omnibus boxes leaped 
on the stage, among them a young Prince of the Blood. 
The curtain now fell definitively, and, amidst the 
sympathetic cheers of one portion of the house and the 
hootings of another, the gallant chevaliers of the 
" omnibus " waved their hats triumphantly, and shouted 
" Victory !" 

Thus ended the first act of the great " Tamburini 
Kow." During the whirlwind of the elements, I had 
gone, as Laporte's chief co-adjutor, to the box of the 
Duchess of Cambridge, that I might entreat Her 
Eoyal Highness to use her influence with the originators 
of the disturbance. I had even, at the suggestion of 
Her Eoyal Highness, entered the very citadel of the foe, 
and exerted my efforts towardfe the establishment of peace. 
When, however, I demurred to the request that I would 
use my influence with M. Laporte to induce him to 
yield to the unreasoning and unreasonable exigencies of 
a coalition, my expostulations were unheeded, and the 
"row" re-commenced with undiminished vigour. * 

Thus, then, triumphed the " clique." After a con- 
fused and contradictory paper war between Messrs. 
Laporte and Tamburini, and another, but less exciting, 
disturbance on the following opera night, Laporte gave 
up the point. The good offices of Count D'Orsay were 

* After the doors were closed, M- Laporte walked out with me 
to enjoy the fresh air. It was a calm, clear night, contrasting 
strong^ with the storm which, but an hour before, had raged 
within. We talked over the occurrences of the evening. " I must 
give in," said Laporte, " and treat them as spoiled children." 
" But if you give a child what he cries for," I rejoined, " he will 
soon learn that crying is the readiest mode of gaining his wishes." 
" Yet most nurses do this," was Laporte's reply — an acute and 
j)ertinent remark. 



THE MANAGER YIELDS. 17 

employed in mediation : the manager yielded to the pres- 
sure, and bowed before the storm. Tamburini was re- 
engaged, and was so deeply affected by what he chose to 
consider the " sympathy of the public," that he shed 
tears of emotion. " If those tears could but be analysed," 
said Laporte, with his usual dry humour, "their com- 
ponent parts would be found to be of gold and silver." 
But the clique had won the day. The public had been 
the dupe of the manoeuvres of the few, when it believed 
in the genuine feelings of the so-called " enthusiasts of 
art." * It knew nothing of the unartistic motives hidden 
beneath the surface. Nor did even M. Laporte, when he 
submitted to this tyrannical demand, know how much 
his defeat was destined, by giving fresh strength to the 
conspiracy, to affect the future prosperity of the theatre. 
Notwithstanding the importance attached to itself, as 
being necessary to the support of the theatre, by la 
vieille garde, it is very clear, from all the records of 
the establishment, that more reliance was to be placed, 
at this period, on the ballet as a source of attraction with 
the subscribers (especially the men of fashion) than on 
the legitimate opera. To judge from the dissatisfaction 
expressed at the tardiness of Laporte in providing a new 
and striking ballet for the opening of the season of 1841, 
and from the bitter complaints of ballet-master and 
scene-painter that " they had nothing to do," it might 
almost be supposed that financial success vfas to be 
built upon the ballet alone. Even the despondency of 

* It will be perceived how little value the gentlemen of the 
omnibus box really attached to the engagement of Signer Tam- 
burini, when it is stated that, on the first appearance of that singer, 
after their triumph, both the omnibus box and the stalls were 
without occupants, and remained so till the ballet ! 

C 



18 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA, 

M. Laporte at this period, arising probably from the state 
of his health, about to give way entirely, seems to have 
proceeded as much from his difficulty in providing good 
dancers and attractive ballets, as from the annoyances- 
occasioned by the obstructions and manoeuvres of the 
vocalists. Although conscious from time to time that 
his strength was failing him in mind as well as in body, 
M. Laporte seems, during this last season, to have rallied 
occasionally, and to have manifested some of his ancient 
energy, vivacity, and spirit. In 1841 he prepared 
matters for the campaign of 1842, discussing " pro- 
grammes " and forming engagements ; and he appears 
to have even contemplated -undertaking the direction of 
the Italian opera in Paris, conjointly with that in London. 
He, moreover, contrived to win back a portion of his 
ancient popularity by resuming, during the season we 
have been treating of, his former profession of an actor, 
performing in the "Precieuses Ridicules," and the 
" Depit Amoureux," on three of the nights of the first 
season of Rachel in London — viz., in 1841. 

Much that is interesting respecting that celebrated 
actress, who at that time, unsullied in reputation, was 
courted by the highest and most exclusive society in 
London, and greatly favoured by the Queen, might be 
culled from the opera records of the period. But the 
subject would occupy too great a space to allow of more 
than a brief mention here; although when she reappears, 
under my own immediate management, she will receive 
her due prominence in its history. 

The stormy season of 1841 came to a close; and, 
although the note of preparation was already sounded 
for the season of 1842, there were many matters con- 
nected with the legal position of the theatre, which 



THE THEATRE FOE SALE. 19 

created uneasiness in the mind of the lessee, respecting 
his situation in the coming year. 

The assignees of Mr. Chambers, who appeared in the 
•character of lessors of the opera-house, had been, for 
years past, unable to come to any decisive settlement as 
to the property. His bankruptcy had become a case 
famous in legal annals, not only from the apparently 
endless litigation it had occasioned, and the knotty points 
of law and even fact involved — but from the peculiar 
position of Mr. Chambers himself, who had resolutely 
chosen to remain a prisoner in the Fleet rather than 
recognise the legality of his bankruptcy — a matter 
obstinately disputed, and fought, in various courts, with 
fresh evidence in proof or in refutation at every turn, 
and with fluctuating results. During all this period, the 
assignees had abstained from any sale of the property, 
which an adverse decision would have rendered null, at 
the same time that it would have entailed very serious 
consequences upon themselves. Eventually, however, 
between the years 1839-40, an arrangement had been 
effected between the conflicting parties; and the assignees 
judged themselves enabled to offer the theatre for sale. 
Fears were naturally entertained by M. Laporte that the 
theatre might fall into the hands of persons adverse to his 
interests ; and he strongly solicited me to find the means, 
through my numerous friends,* of purchasing the pro- 

* Among those friends was a certain nobleman, well known to 
take an interest in opera affairs. With this nobleman, I made a 
journey to Italy about this time ; and, dining one day with the 
British Minister at Turin (Sir Augustus Foster), I was seated next 
to the Pope's Nuncio, an intelligent and amiable person. Lord 

, perceiving that we were engaged in familiar conversation, 

slyly whispered to me an inquiry whether I had induced the legate 
to put down the name of His Holiness as a subscriber ? 

c-2 



20 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

perty, with the understanding that he should be granted 
a fresh lease, under the new proprietary, for a certain 
number of years, at a fixed rental. And in the year 1840 
(the last but one of the Laporte management), negocia- 
tions to this efiect took a substantial form, inasmuch as in- 
structions had already been given for the preparation of 
a provisional contract, to serve until the title could be 
investigated and the purchase completed. Such, then, 
was the state of the property, when the eventful season 
of 1841 had run through its tumultuous course. 

Thoroughly worn out with the jarring conflict of 
his administration, M. Laporte retired, seeking some 
repose and relief to his overstrained mind, to a house 
which he possessed on the banks of the Seine, near 
CorbeU ; while I myself, almost equally fatigued with the 
unusually distracting business of the theatre, and other 
heavy professional work, sought relaxation in a conti- 
nental tour. We parted, on the understanding that we 
were to spend a week together, in the autumn, at Cor- 
beil, but were destined never to meet again. At Stras- 
burg, whither I had given directions to have my letters 
addressed, with the intention of either proceeding to 
Paris or taking a longer journey to Switzerland and 
Italy, according to the intelligence they contained and 
the urgency of the business they might disclose, I found 
a mass of correspondence awaiting me. The first letter 
I opened gave me the sad intelligence of the sudden 
death of the friend I had left so short a time before in 
tolerable health. Laporte had died of disease of the 
heart, aggravated probably by the trials and emotions 
under which he had for so long a time suffered. 

The blow was startling. Horses were immediately 
ordered, and I set off in hot haste for Paris. The jour- 



DEATH or LAPORTE. 21 

ney was effected with a rapidity which in those days 
sounded almost marvellous; for railways were not, and the 
government mail absorbed the available posting resources 
of the road. Deeply shocked and afflicted as I was by the 
intelligence I had just received, and engrossing as were 
the thoughts it brought in its train, I had but one feel- 
ing constantly in my mind during my hurried journey 
— namely, that I should now be enabled to give up all 
connexion with the theatre, and return to my strictly 
professional career. For some years previously, when once 
I conceived that I had placed the interests of the opera 
on a sound financial basis, I had desired to detach my- 
self from occupations which interfered with other and 
more solid pursuits ; I had been . withheld from putting 
this desire into practice, solely by the entreaties of 
Laporte, who protested, that, without my aid as co- 
adjutor, the theatre would relapse into its former state 
of confusion, and that he himself would be obliged, thus 
deserted, to throw up all, or expect only ruin and disas- 
ter. But the time of freedom had at last arrived. 
The affairs of the opera would absorb and distract me no 
more. Thus I argued. How little do we know of our 
future, is the most trite of familiar remarks. But here 
it bears a peculiar significance. 

On arriving in Paris, I found that I had been appointed 
joint-executor of the late M. Laporte's will, along with 
Mr. Henry Broadwood, then Member of Parliament for 
Bridgewater, My more urgent business, however, com- 
pelled my return to London, in order to come to some 
understanding with the assignees of Mr. Chambers^ 
relative to the matters in abeyance between them and 
Laporte's estate. My first communication to my friends 
announced, that I intended to break off altogether my 



22 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

connexion with the affairs of the opera. But following 
immediately upon this announcement there came a letter 
from the noble Lord, who has been already mentioned, 
and who was well known to be greatly interested in 
operatic matters, urging me to undertake myself the 
sole direction ; with unqualified promises not only of 
adding his personal support and influence, but of 
every assistance towards effecting the purchase of the 
property. This communication was followed by earnest 
solicitations to the same effect from various other 
quarters. The assignees, as holders of the property, 
urged me in every way to undertake the concern, 
on the ground that I was the man most deeply versed 
in all the complicated affairs of the establishment, and 
most cognisant of the intricacies of its management. 
The temptation was great ; but I still hesitated. Not 
only my earnest desire to devote all my time once more 
to my profession held me back — there was another 
consideration that with equal force, probably, deterred 
me from giving my immediate consent. I could not 
shut out from my mind the bitter and harassing annoy- 
ances to which Laporte had been subjected by certain 
of the artistes, comprising Grisi, Persiani, Tamburini, 
and others, composing the so-called vieille garde. 

The dread of finding myself in a similar position of 
humiliation and distress was among the gravest of my 
objections. But the man, not less than the woman, 
who deliberates, is lost. I wavered, and was eventually 
persuaded to take the burthen of the management on 
myself. The die was cast, and the sole direction of the 
great Italian Opera House in London was henceforward 
placed in my hands. 

The era of my management now begins. 



23 



CHAPTER III. 

Qualities needed for Governing an Establishment like that of the Opera 
— Contrast between these and the Character of the late Lessee — The 
Theatres in England Unassisted by Government — Serious Nature of 
the Enterprise as Dependent on Individual Resources — Reflections 
on my Peculiar Position — ^Advantageous Experience acquired in M. 
Laporte's time — Favour shown by the Nobility and others on my 
entering upon the Direction of Her Majesty's Theatre — ^The Fetes 
at my Villa on the Thames — Their Attraction. 

With the season of 1842 my reign commenced. The 
hazard of the enterprise was unquestionably great — the 
responsibility not less. True, I had not taken the 
sceptre in hand without an understanding of the diffi- 
culties and dangers before me. Indeed, during all the 
years of my intimacy with the affairs of the theatre, I 
had not only had time to become acquainted with the 
vast and complicated machinery of its government, but 
I also had daily opportunities to study the faults as well 
as the merits of my predecessor's rule. Among the 
latter I may reckon M. Laporte's intelligent appreciation 
of the temper and requirements of the public, his know- 
ledge of character, the gift of personal influence ; among 
the former, the habit of procrastination, and the ever 
sanguine hope of finding a way out of any dilemma by 
the prompt resources of his rare ability. " To learn the 
art of war by observing the faults of others " was one 



24 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEKA. 

of the great maxims of the " Iron Duke," as I was in- 
formed by his successor. During this period, also, I 
had been able to acquire a very considerable influence 
over all the persons connected with the theatre. I had 
soon learned to liken the stage before me to a little 
state, where jealousies, intrigues, and factions Avere con- 
stantly called into play ; where the spirit of revolution 
was ever ready to lift its head, and where the opposition 
of enemies, with fancied causes for grievance, was ever 
at hand to crush the embryo of an adverse plan, or 
strangle it, if maturing towards execution. I had learned 
at the same time to oppose to these evil elements of 
anarchy a policy of silence and reserve, and I determined 
rigidly to abstain from all direct interference in matters 
not immediately belonging to my own functions. This 
policy, while it gained for me among the artists the sou- 
briquet oi "L' Homme Mysterieux" enabled me to exercise 
the influence which inscrutal)ility and mystery often do 
command, especially with the demonstrative and im- 
patient foreigner. The knowledge that among persons 
of an imaginative temperament, especially when their 
interests and passions were concerned, vague truths 
might quickly be distorted into monstrous shapes, had 
early taught me the value of reserve and silence. 

Another advantage which I may flatter myself I pos- 
sessed, was an innate spirit of order. By virtue of this 
faculty indeed, my position had been strengthened, long 
before the reins were placed in my own unwilling hands. 
The greatest difficulty to be surmounted was the incessant 
attempt to grasp supremacy on the part of the oft-men^ 
tioned clique; and I knew, by the sad experience of 
Laporte, that, whatever might be the inconveniences of 
firmness, concession to unjust exigences would infallibly 



MANAGERIAL DIFFICULTIES, 25 

lead to further encroaclimeiits and eventual ruin. 

To resume my narrative. Terms Tvere arranged with 
the assignees of Mr. Chambers for the rental of the 
theatre until the sale could be completed. The neces- 
sary capital was forthcoming, and the season of 1842 
opened under my sole direction. 

Before entering, however, into the history of my 
management, it might be well to set in a clearer light 
the real position which a director of the opera must oc- 
cupy in England. 

It has been already observed, that no assistance is 
afforded to our theatres by Government. Any one de- 
signing to enter upon the management of one, especially 
of the Italian Opera, has to provide capital, to make ad- 
vances, and to defray his expenses beforehand, trusting 
to overtake all by a successful season, or rather by a series 
of such. The man himself should possess the sort of talent 
and knowledge adapted to the enterprise, and ought like- 
wise to be endowed with fortitude, hopefulness, patience, 
and .power of self-controul, coupled with strong health 
and ability to endure fatigue. 

Now, supposing a courageous and competent person 
to present himself in the position of a director, uniting 
the requisites sketched above, with what feelings do we 
find him regarded by the theatrical section of the public? 
The answer will suggest itself to most of those who 
have had experience of the habits of London society. 
From the noble Patron and Patroness down to the 
subscribing Bookseller ; from the wealthy Citizen down 
to the Modiste — all frequenters, or would-be frequenters 
of the opera, entertain a common sentiment of hostility 
towards " the manager." Most of them grudge giving 
their money. Each seeks to obtain his amusement by 



26 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the least possible outlay. Admissions "gratis" are 
sought with importunity by those who can set forth the 
slightest claim to the favour. Artists themselves show 
no consideration for the director's purse, but clamour 
for boxes and tickets for friends without limit. Such is 
the wide-spreading feeling among the opera-going pub- 
lic, on the opening of a new season. No one thinks of 
the outlay : but everyone calculates the gains. Who 
ever expresses pleasure at the thought that the manager 
is making a profit ? He is, to speak openly, the " com- 
mon enemy" in the eyes of both public and artists. 
The latter feel injured if he reaps the harvest of 
their labours, and think he ought to pay them higher ; 
the public feel displeasure at the prices required for 
admission, and argue, that, if the theatre "pays," the 
tariff ought to be lower. Lastly, the difficulties of 
the director, when they become notorious, excite no 
compassion. A few rich noblemen tender a certain 
amount of support, on the understood condition of being 
allowed to influence the administration ; and when, 
induced by these flattering hopes of friendly assistance, 
tlie manager parts with his independence, he becomes 
powerless to recover his losses, and finally meets his 
ruin at the hands of the aristocratic ally, who relent- 
lessly presses for repayment out of an empty treasury. 

Indeed, when the enormous expenditure involved in 
the carrying on of the theatre, its high rent, the heavy 
rate of insurance against fire, the army of functionaries 
in its pay, the wear and tear of the " properties," the 
losses by non-payment of boxes, the vast sums absorbed 
by the artists — singers, dancers, and orchestra — are all 
taken into consideration, it is easy to imagine how 
large must be the receipts which should balance such 



MANAGERIAL ADVANTAGES. 27 

outgoings. And be it always borne in mind, that in the 
case of Italian Opera, the season, properly so called, 
lasts no more than four or five months out of the 
twelve. 

The principal source whence a director derives sup- 
port, encouragement, and satisfaction in his career, 
apart from pecuniary profit, is to be found in the charac- 
ter and behaviour of some of the more distinguished 
artists, with whom the reputation of the opera has been 
intimately associated. Very many of the great names, 
which have illustrated the period of my management, 
are set down on the list of my attached friends and well- 
wishers. 

Having called attention to the circumstances that 
might utterly discourage any one disposed to enter 
upon the position of an opera manager, it will be a more 
pleasing task to mention the advantages and accidental 
aids which fell to my lot in addition to the personal 
qualifications which are emxmerated above, and which, I 
flatter myself, I brought to the services of my enter- 
prize. One of these advantages I must especially men- 
tion : the professional education which I had gone 
through, enabling me to comprehend many legal in- 
tricacies which, to a " layman" (as one may say) would 
have been a hopeless puzzle. Again a distinct view of 
liabilities, contingencies, risks, and, on the other hand, 
of prospective privileges and advantages, was brought 
more clearly within the scope of my vision than was 
possible in the case of previous managers. 

To show that I was not a merely nominal lawyer, but 
had been sincere in the pursuit of my profession, I may 
state that, about the time of M. Laporte's death, I pub- 
lished a treatise on ''Parliamentary Practice," which 



28 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPEKA. 

became the standard work on the subject, and which, by 
shewing, in juxtaposition, the clashing rules of the two 
Houses with respect to private bills, led to their assimi- 
lation. I may add, that my respected friend and tutor, 
Mr. Basil Montagu, dedicated to me a work which 
he published on the " Law of Election." 

Not to dwell longer upon this point, I will now turn 
to the social position which I already occupied, and to 
the friendly consideration shewn towards me by persons 
of high standing in this country, as well as by distin- 
guished foreigners. Noblemen were not backward in 
tendering support, and also pecuniary assistance (if 
such were needed), when it became a question whether I 
would or would not venture upon the step of taking the 
opera. And many of the leading men of fashion en- 
couraged me to take it, prompted by the partiality felt 
for me as the zealous co-adjutor of poor Laporte — now 
no more. When at length I braced up my courage to 
the venture, the nobility, headed by a distinguished con- 
noisseur belonging to their order, realized, by rallying 
round me, the promise which had encouraged my decision. 

Not only was a liberal " subscription " entered into 
for boxes and stalls for the season of 1842, by the aris- 
tocracy and gentry, but the list was graced with the 
namesof Her Majesty Queen Victoria, theQueen Dowager, 
the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, besides those of 
many foreign diplomatists and visitors. 

For some years successively, as will presently be 
seen, the tide of fashion flowed steadily towards the 
Opera-house, the attractions of which were so splendid 
and diversified, that the satisfaction of the public mani- 
fested itself in every form of eulogy. Many of the 
" subscribers" personally expressed their approbation of 



F^TES AT MY VILLA. 29 

the manner inwhich both the Opera and Ballet were 
conducted ; whilst, on the Continent the reputation of the 
theatre rose so high as to cast a reflected lustre upon the 
manager himself. 

I, on my part, feeling grateful to the artists for the 
immense success, of which, naturally, they were regarded 
as the chief cause, was in the habit of shewing them 
personal civilities at my private residence, where many 
a cheerful hour of unreserved and congenial intercourse, 
graced by the admixture of accomplished and amiable 
amateurs of both sexes, was enjoyed by my " premier 
suj^ts." Once in the summer of each year I likewise 
gave a fete, on a more extended scale, at the same 
suburban villa, to which the flower of London society — 
ladies as well as gentlemen — were invited, together with 
a large number of "professionals." To these festal 
entertainments it was always regarded as a privilege to 
be admitted, and I may venture to assert that no one 
ever came away from them without feeling gratified with 
the day's amusement. 

My f^te was in truth the day of the season, with all 
classes connected with the opera. Artists mingled 
familiarly with the gay throng, or formed groups in the 
gardens, whilst many sauntered on the terrace bor- 
dering the river — " alive " with boats, eager spectators 
of the " regatta " going forward on its waters. Ample 
provision was made for dinner, bands of music played 
throughout the afternoon, and towards night dancing 
became general within doors. 

To give a list of the guests present at these " re- 
unions " would be to name most of the distinguished 
members of English and foreign society. Accordingly, 
the relations which grew up between t^ese guests and 



30 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

their entertainer, apart from the enjoyment of the society 
of cultivated and high-bred people, gave a certain im- 
portance and consideration to the "Director of Her 
Majesty's Theatre." Invited to some of the most agree- 
able country houses, as a staying guest, having also 
friendly connexions among the middle classes which, in 
England, it may fairly be said, unite in an eminent 
degree worth of character with genial kind-heartedness, 
my position was, altogether, a more enviable and brilliant 
one than it has usually been the lot of theatrical managers 
to attain. These exceptional advantages must be ranked 
among the most pleasing of compensations for the 
anxieties and vexations to which a director is neces- 
sarily subjected. 

That it reflected a beneficial prestige upon the 
establishment, is incontestable; and there were not a 
few occasions in which the interposition of persons of 
rank and influence in matters of difiiculty, such as arise 
between director and artist, efiected the most salutary 
results. The artist felt flattered that "the noble " 
should take interest in the concerns of the theatre, and 
was at the same time made sensible that such interest 
was in great part referable to an anxiety to maintain me 
in the management. These " passages " took Her 
Majesty's Theatre somewhat out of the usual orbit 
wherein establishments of the kind ordinarily revolve in 
this country. 

Again, as often as I crossed the straits of Dover, I 
found a ready welcome from those whom we might style 
" personages," rather than " persons." At the chief 
cities of Europe, a cordial invitation to dine with 
ministers, ambassadors, statesmen, and others, was sure 
to be forthcoming ; whilst from the "celebrities " of the 



REPUTE OF THE THEATRE. 31 

day of the artist class, I equally met with a ready and 
even flattering reception. Honoured alike in the palace 
and in the modest abode of the singer, I passed from a 
pleasant visit to Prince Metternich to the villa of Rubini; 
from a tete-a-tite with the illustrious Count Cavour to 
a " cosy " talk with the Catalani (a woman as estimable 
as she was celebrated) ; from the Tuileries to the dwell- 
ing of the composer or the poet. Thus I alternated the 
pursuit of recruits for my coming season, with the culti- 
vation of my more exalted " relations," to my own sen- 
sible advantage and enjoyment. 

With such elements of success on my side, it is not to 
be wondered at that the eclat of the establishment in 
the Haymarket outshone all others, or that the rising 
aspirants for scenic fame were desirous of trying their 
fortune upon those boards on which the eminent artists 
of the period had attained their highest reputation, under 
the sway of a director of reputed ability to render full 
justice to artistic merit and power. 



32 



CHAPTER IV. 

Commencement of the Season of 1842— Subscription Large and Liberally- 
Entered into by Patrons and Booksellers — Engagements Inherited 
from M. Laporte Renewed — Inability of Madame Grisi to Fulfil 
Hers — ^Rapid Journey to Italy in Search of a Prima Donna — ^Madame 
FrezzoHni Engaged — ^Embarrassing Relations with the Artists, Con- 
sequent on the Former Laxity of M. Laporte's Government — Strong 
Company Announced for First Season — ^The Pre-Paschal Season — 
" Gemma di Vergy " — Guasco — ^Moltioi — Negociation with Donizetti 
and Romani for a New Opera. 

Lire the first year of most new dynasties, the first year 
of my operatic reign was destined to be replete with 
troubles, discontents, intrigues, conspiracies, and rebel- 
lions. The sky was throughout tempestuous ; the rocks 
and shoals, sunken as well as visible above the surface of 
the stormy operatic ocean, were difficult and dangerous to 
steer through. Nevertheless, favourable omens were not 
wanting at the outset. The booksellers as well as the 
subscribers had confidence in the new direction; so that 
the largest subscription ever known at the opera was 
forthcoming for the season of 1842. It was not from 
that quarter that the dangerous squalls arose. 

The engagements made by M. Laporte had been ter- 
minated by his death. But I hastily renewed the greater 
number, for whatever might be my own private feelings 
and inclinations, I had no time to seek out other artists. 



ENGAGEMENT OF FREZZOLINI. 33 

At ray very starting, however, a serious and unexpected 
obstacle arose. Only a few weeks previously to the 
opening of the theatre, on my return from a rapid run to 
Italy, a mere chance gave me the intimation that Madame 
Grisi would probably be unable to perform during all the 
earlier part of the season. At some time in May, or 
the beginning of June, I was informed — the very period 
when the services of a principal prima donna would be 
most indispensably necessary to the fortunes of the es- 
tablishment — her confinement would preclude even hope 
of her being available. Upon inquiry, this startling and 
discouraging piece of information turned out to be true. 
Not having been warned of this untoward contingency 
while forming my engagements, I was utterly unpro- 
vided with a prima donna assoluta fitted for the more 
strongly dramatic parts of the ordinary repertoire, and 
was for a moment overwhelmed at the discovery. 

Happily, I was not a man to be easily daunted ; and, 
in spite of the many important matters requiring 
my direct superintendence in London, I immediately 
set out "in hot haste" for Rome, where Madame 
-Frezzolini, whose reputation in the grand genre of 
the lyric drama was considerable, was at that time 
residing. The lady, whose husband, the tenor Poggi, 
was then singing at Rome, was herself disengaged, ex- 
pecting almost daily to become a mother : but early in 
the London season she might still be available. An en- 
gagement was hastily made, and I rapidly returned to 
England, as active and unwearied as when I started on 
my outward journey. I may state, as an amusing fact, 
that, pending this negotiation, T seriously puzzled a 
great Roman banker, who, finding that, a mysterious 
stranger had been credited with a large amount, was at 

D 



34 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

his wit's end to divine witli what Principe incognito; 
or secret diplomatist, he had to deal: the rather, since I 
declined his invitation to a banquet on the following day. 

" Ce n'est que le premier joas qui cdute " is a proverb 
which frequently holds good with respect to mortal ex- 
ertions. But the premier pas was not the only one 
which was destined to disturb my peace of mind during 
the first year of my reign. Much confusion was disco- 
vered in the terms of various engagements — ^much more 
in the several departments of the theatre. The diffi- 
culties with many of the artists, whose gradually-acquired 
supremacy rendered their caprices more tyrannical 
than ever, were soon found to press upon the new 
director. The " cold " and " illness " system, which had 
been of old employed to thwart the existing arrange- 
ments and to sustain various jealousies and intrigues,- 
was again resorted to by recalcitrant artists, and that to 
a degree which occasioned grave inconvenience. For 
the public — the real public — began at last to resent an 
apparently arbitrary change in the performances. A de- 
scription of the struggle against these internal manoeuvres, 
and the fluctuations of success and defeat with which 
it was attended, must be attempted at this stage of my 
history. 

The list of singers laid before the subscribers in 1842 
was, in many respects, most attractive. It contained, 
among its prime donne, the names of Mesdames Persiani, 
Frezzolini, Moltini, and Eonconi ; amongst its tenors 
those of Eubini (for occasional performances, previous 
to his retiring from the stage), Mario, Guasco, and 
Poggi (the husband of Madame Frezzolini) ; among its 
baritones and basses, Eonconi, Panzini, the great 
Lablache, with his son Frederico, and Burdini. Signor 



CbMMENGEMENT OP 1842. 35 

Costa still ruled in the orchestra as the musical di- 
rector. Only one name, without which no opera company- 
was then supposed to be complete, was absent from the 
programme. However, no manifestation of displeasure 
took place. No shouts of " Where's Tamburini ?" were 
heard from men of fashion. Letters from the great 
baritone, it is true, appeared in the public prints, 
stating that he was not engaged, and asking why he 
was thus overlooked ; but they failed to create the 
desired sensation. Indeed, they did not even elicit a 
rejoinder or an explanation. When Ronconi, who had 
been engaged as his substitute, appeared, no opposition 
was offered — no yelling public attempted to "put him 
down." As will be seen, this justly celebrated artist 
quickly established himself as a favourite ; and the poor 
martyr of a previous season seemed wholly forgotten. 
Was it that a fickle public had proved ungrateful ? or 
was it not rather that the prime mover of it was absent 
from the scene, and that the tactics of the "cabal " had, 
in this instance, been modified ? Completely dissolved 
it had not been. From time to time it made itself 
disastrously felt within the walls of the theatre. 

At this period it was the custom to give a preliminary 
opera season before Easter, during which the great 
" stars," who were then ordinarily engaged in Paris, 
Seldom appeared ; inferior, or, at all events, less well- 
known artists, being usually engaged. This was a sort 
of foretaste of the richer banquet to be given when the 
Lenten season was over, and was generally supposed to 
be less relished than the post-Easter entertainment. 
The season of 1842, in obedience to this custom, opened 
on Saturday, the 12th April, with the "Gemma di 
Vergy " of Donizetti, Madame Moltini appearing for the 

d2 



36 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

first time as the prima donna, and Guasco as leading 
tenor. The choice of the opera, given rather to meet 
the views of the singers than those of the manager, 
was by no means felicitous. " Gemma di Yergy," 
although abounding in melody and effects, both dramatic 
and musical, was not esteemed one of Donizetti's finer 
compositions, albeit a favourite opera in many parts of 
Italy. Donizetti, likewise, had found, up to this time, 
but slight favoiir with the English public, or, at all 
events, with the English press. He occupied, then, in 
this country, a position similar to that which afterwards 
fell to the lot of his successor, Verdi ; and even among a 
great portion of the numerous critics, amateurs as well 
as " professionals," he was pronounced, by many 
arbiters of taste, "flimsy," "meretricious," "noisy," 
" unsound," " plagiarist," and so on. 

" Gemma " was unquestionably a failure ; as, indeed, 
it would have proved under these prejudices with even 
stronger claims to approbation. I may take occasion 
to remark, that a criticism is still extant condemning 
the " Barbiere di Siviglia," when first represented in 
England, as utterly "worthless." Eossini is now a 
classic, but in his early days he was treated with as 
little respect as Donizetti and Verdi at later periods. 

Negociations had been, for some time past, carried on 
with Donizetti, for the purpose of obtaining from him a 
new opera, " composed expressly " for Her Majesty's 
Theatre. Under these circumstances, it was considered 
highly important to obtain a libretto from Felice Eomani, 
the Italian poet, author of the libretti of " La Sonnam- 
bula," " Anna Bolena," " Norma," " L'Elisir," 
^'Lucrezia," and other successful operas. For some 
time past Romani had refused the most alluring offers. 



MOLTINI AND GUASCO. 37 

and declined to write any other opera-book. Neverthe- 
less I made a journey for the express purpose of seeing 
him, and, after considerable difficulty, induced him to 
waive his determination. Donizetti was delighted, and 
readily undertook to write the music. Romani, how- 
ever, though he reiterated his promises, never furnished 
more than a few scenes of his intended opera, the 
subject of which was " Circe," the principal part being 
intended for Madame Grisi. 

The success of Madame Moltini is a matter of dispute, 
although she had many advantages, among which were 
a pleasing person, and a fresh, resonant voice. Guasco, 
with a fine organ, a good school, a striking person, and 
suffi<;ient powers of dramatic expression, was more 
favourably received, although he failed to acquire a 
permanent position on the Anglo-Italian stage. Indeed, 
his success may be regarded as far from insignificant, 
when the influence exercised by Mario and the vieille 
garde at the time is considered. A previous engage- 
ment, contracted for the ensuing summer, at Vienna, 
appears to have been the reason why he did not return 
to London. I made large offers to M. Merelli, the 
director of the Italian Opera at that capital, in order 
to obtain his release ; but the Austrian Court, which set 
much store upon Guasco, refused to permit the ratifi- 
cation of any such arrangement. 

Whatever success attended the pre-Easter season, 
was, in fine, mainly attributable to the ballet. 



38 



CHAPTEE V. 

Season of 1842 (Continued)— The BaUel^" GiseUe"— Carlotta Grisi— 
Persiani— Ronconi's Z)e6wi— Madame Moltini in "Norma" — 
Mario's Refusal to play PolUone — Debut of Madame Frezzolini — 
Poggi — "Beatrice di Tenda" — "Lucrezia Borgia" — "Torquato 
TasBO " — Failure of Madame Ronconi —Dissensions among the 
Artists — Success of " Le Cantatrici ViUane." 



There were days ■when the ballet d'action still maintained 
a high prestige with the opera subscribers, though it was 
never so popular in England as in the gesticulating South, 
or even in France. It was not till years afterwards that 
the Lord Dundrearys of the opera came to regard the 
ballet as a "something that no fellow could understand;" 
and to set their faces entirely against all pantomimic 
action, which, in order to follow " the story," required 
a slight effort of observation and memory. In fact, 
these critical gentlemen have now declared all ballet per- 
formances, beyond the mere divertissement, or string of 
consecutive dances, " a bore." 

I will, however, so far concede a point to the indolent 
patrons of choreographic art as to admit that even the 
ballet (faction ought to be much more easily intelligible 
than the generality of plays in which words are employed. 
The situations should tell their own tale, and that part 
of the action which merely belongs to the development 



39 

of the plot, but is not striking to the eye, should be 
rendered as subordinate as possible. Hence I am 
rather inclined to the opinion that a known subject is 
better adapted for a ballet than one which has to be un- 
ravelled for the first time, when presented in dumb- 
show. Had the Dundrearys to whom I refer merely 
objected to obscure ballets, their objection would have 
been sound enough ; but they would have the diver- 
tissement, and nothing else. Accepting the risk of telling 
people what they already know, I will venture to ex- 
plain that the term hallet d'action belongs to ballets with 
a developed plot and more or less of pantomimic action, 
whereas in the divertissement, the story, if such it can be 
called, is a mere pretext for the introduction of dances. 
The charming ballet, " Giselle," with the truly 
captivating music of Adolphe Adam, was produced on 
the opening night of 1842. Carlotta Grisi, not abso- 
lutely unknown here, but now entitled for the first time 
to touch the highest position, and her clever, agile hus- 
band, Perrot, were the prominent artists in the enter- 
tainment. A Mademoiselle Fleury, new to England, 
added to the excellent effect of the ensemble as the 
Queen of the Wilis. The anti-pantomimic malcontents 
not having yet assumed the position of a fashionable 
faction, the "story" was admitted to be " vastly pretty." 
" Giselle " was pronounced a success, and the produc- 
tion of this ballet may be regarded as the main element 
of attraction on the opening of my first season. Its 
success was probably owing to the fact of the 
whole story being comprised within the limits of a 
short romantic legend, which, in the hands of a skilful 
" Mime," becomes easily intelligible. The original story 
was borrowed by Theophile Gautier from Henri Heine, 



40 REMINISCENCES QF THE OIEBA. 

the well-known German poet, to whom I shall afterwards 
have occasion to refer. 

What was at that time designated the " real " season, 
should have been inaugurated by the first appearance of 
Madame Persiani, now at the height of her ■ popularity. 
But it would seem that for an instant the demon of disaster 
hovered over Her Majesty's Theatre. Persiani was an- 
nounced for Tuesday, the 5th April ; but, at the last mo- 
ment, a hand-bill informed the entering crowd that the ex- 
pected favourite had suffered too much from sea-sickness 
on her passage from Calais to Dover, to be able to sing. 
The disappointed public was not to be pacified with a 
pot pourri from " Gemma " and " II Giuramento," with 
Guasco and Moltini, but expressed its dissatisfaction 
with clamour and hissing. The " check " was unfortu- 
nate to a season destined to realize in many respects the 
sanguine presages with which it commenced. The fol- 
lowing Saturday, however, brought forward not only 
Persiani, but Giorgio Konconi, who made his debut 
before an English public as the Enrico of the " Lucia 
de Lammermoor," a part nat well suited to the display of 
his talents. Hence his debut was not so completely suc- 
cessful as his second performance soon after in " Beatrice 
di Tenda," which proved so excellent, that it established 
him at once a favourite on the Anglo-Italian boards, and 
put to rest all demands for the return of Tamburini. 

" Lucia," on the whole admirably cast, and the 
" Elisir d'Amore," with Persiani, Lablache, Eonconi, 
and Mario, appeared for a few nights to have dispelled 
the thunder-clouds that hung over the opera; but for a 
few nights only, inasmuch as the *' cold and illness " 
system was soon found to be again at work ; and, on 
the announcement of the " indisposition " of both Per- 



MARIO AND "POLLIONE." 41 

siani and Guasco, the change of performance thus 
necessitated brought forward fresh, or rather smoulder- 
ing, elements of discord. The opera of " Norma " was 
hastily substituted, with Madame Moltini as the pnma 
donna of the night. 

Signor Mario, who had already sung the part of 
Pollione in Paris, was, naturally, called upon to resume 
his position in that opera. But Signor Mario refused so 
to do. He was appealed to as " an artist, and as a 
gentleman," to assist the manager under the embarrass- 
ment of the occasion. He still declined. A sore throat 
was then urged as the pretext of his refusal, and rival 
doctors published on the morrow advertisements res- 
pectively asserting and denying his inability to sing. 

The difficulty of the " situation " being great, I 
wrote to Signor Mario, entreating him, if he could not 
sing, at least to appear, in order to propitiate the public 
by this demonstration of his good-will. The tenor's 
answer was, that he was engaged to sing and not to 
appear. When at last another tenor was substituted, 
and already dressed for the part, Signor Mario (who 
by this time had probably been made aware of the false 
position in which he was placing himself) appeared in 
the theatre, to the astonishment of the manager, and 
declared himself, in inverted phrase, ready to appear but 
not to sing. It was then too late. 

In point of fact, Signor Mario refused to sing Pollione 
with any other Norma than Madame Grisi, and his 
refusal seemed particularly unreasonable, as the lady in 
question was at this time unable to perform. The de- 
nunciations against him were heavy. Scarcely a London 
newspaper refrained from attacking the recalcitrant 
tenor in explicit, not to say harsh, terms. A short paper 



42 REMINISCENCES OF THE OFERA. 

war ensued, in which the gentleman was utterly defeated. 

When Signer Mario again offered his services, the 
management declared that he had violated the articles of 
his engagement; and although, at this juncture, the late 
Duke of Beaufort volunteered his aid as peace-maker, 
the negociation — amongst the conditions of which, on 
my part, was one to the effect that the tenor should 
resume his part of " Pollione " — was unsuccessful. My 
conduct in the whole business obtained, however, 
the entire approval of the Duke, who more- 
over, explained the truth of the affair in influential 
quarters, where a disposition to look very favourably on 
the singer might have been detrimental to my interests. 
Thus, Signor Mario disappeared from the programme of 
the opera for the rest of the season, and it was as well 
for himself, perhaps, that he did so, for the tide of 
popular opinion was strong against him. This coup on 
the part of the management was among the first blows 
struck at the attempted supremacy of the artists over 
the director. 

Under these circumstances, one of the greatest excite- 
ments of the season was undoubtedly the debut of 
Madame Frezzolini. For some years she had held the 
proud position of the most celebrated prima donna on 
the lyric stage in Italy. Her advent was naturally 
heralded by many a flourish of trumpets, not one of 
which, perhaps, was louder than her great reputation 
merited. Italy had proclaimed her " the first among 
the first." There was nothing, therefore, which in the 
slightest degree savoured of "humbug" in the "puff 
preliminary." She was not only a great singer and a 
great actress ; she was, moreover, a fine woman. Italy 
was enthusiastic about her — why should not England be 



DEBUT OF FREZZOLINl. 43 

SO likewise ? As it turned out, Madame Frezzolini was 
received in England with favour, but not with enthusiasm. 
At all events, her success did not reach the point anti- 
cipated. This result may be ascribed to the fact, that 
her health had suiFered greatly, not only from her recent 
confinement, but from cold and privations endured in one 
of the houses of refuge on Mount Cenis, where she had 
been sheltered during a storm for nearly three whole 
days. Jarring discords between herself and her hus- 
band, Signor Poggi (which terminated shortly afterwards 
in a separation), and consequent distress of mind, con- 
tributed likewise to deteriorate a voice which had been 
pre-eminently beautiful when heard a few months pre- 
viously. The mind and " school " of the great artist 
were no longer adequately seconded by her physical 
powers. The fine intention still remained ; but the full 
means for consummate execution were wanting. As it 
was, when the influence of the vieille garde and its 
numerous adherents, as well as the conservative ten- 
dency of the English public, are taken into account, it 
is manifest that the really great talent of Madame Frez- 
zolini alone enabled her to maintain such a position as 
she actually did acquire. 

She achieved, however, notwithstanding these unto- 
ward circumstances, many a legitimate triumph during 
the season. 

Her first appearance was made in "Beatrice di Tenda," 
an opera which, although it contains some of Bellini's 
sweetest melodies, and was supported on this occasion 
by both Ronconi and Guasco, failed to make a very 
favourable impression. 

The libretto of " Beatrice di Tenda," dark, lugubrious, 
and painful, is in itself calculated to impress an English 



44 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

audience unfavourably. Nevertheless, in this opera, 
Eonconi completely established himself, both as singer 
and actor. Poggi, who had unwisely refused the tenor 
part, writhed with jealousy to hear Guasco invariably 
encored in the " lo SofFrii," a melody which, it may be 
noticed, bears a considerable resemblance to the tender 
composition by Reissiger, known as " Weber's last 
Waltz." 

The greatest success of the gifted prima donna was 
achieved in "Lucrezia Borgia," with her husband 
Poggi, who like herself was received with favour, 
although never with any great enthusiasm. 

There is no doubt that Poggi's dress detracted, in 
some degree, from his success; the recollection of 
Mario's admirable costume in the same part leading to 
unfavourable comparisons. 

Immediately following upon Madame Frezzolini, how- 
ever, came a decided failure in the persoji of Madame 
Ronconi, for whose debut " Torquato Tasso " was pro- 
duced. Unfortunately, Signor Ronconi (as rumour said, 
-and for once, it may be affirmed, with singular correct- 
ness) was not allowed, by " Caudle " treaty, to play 
this great character with any other prima donna than 
his sposa. 

The part of Leonora, in " Torquato Tasso," had been 
intended by me for Madame Moltini ; but on this same 
part Madame Ronconi had set her heart, and in this pre- 
tension the compliant husband supported her. I was 
compelled to yield the point, in return for concessions 
made on the side of Ronconi. Noble intervention was 
employed, nay, a dinner was given for the purpose of 
settling the mighty difference. The gratification of the 
lady's desire, however, produced the very reverse of the 



MADAME RONCONI. 45 

anticipated result. Madame Ronconi not only failed 
herself, but rendered her husband, who was thinking 
more of her than his own effects, so nervous, that he 
was unable to obtain, in his favourite part, that success 
which he might otherwise have achieved. 

Accordingly, " Torquato Tasso," in spite of the un- 
deniable greatness of the accomplished baritone in the 
principal part, failed to make any good impression. 
Other circumstances connected with the " cast," apart 
from the fatal drawback of this lady's exigencies, con- 
tributed to deprive the opera of every chance of becom- 
ing a favorite on the London boards. Discord was, 
just then, prevalent in every department of the estab- 
lishment. My first struggle in my operatic rule was 
heavy. I wrestled on, and, sharp as proved the contest, 
was not " thrown," although I may have staggered on 
my feet. 

It was abjaut this period that various rumours of 
the coulisses filtered through into the public ear, 
and that the newspapers of the day began to contain 
references to the differences behind the scenes. One 
journal contained a concise and striking phrase, with 
reference to the composition of the company. " There 
seems a principle of repulsion among its elements." 
" There are jealousies, feuds, and intrigues going on in 
the scenic holes and corners of every theatre," said 
another paper, " but nowhere to such an extent as at 
the Italian Opera. There Madame G. protests against 
playing in the same piece with Signer H. ; and Signer 
D. gives notice that he Avill be ill if Madlle. K. be 
permitted to sing in the same opera with him. Signora 
L. must have Signer M., and no one else, to play with 
her ; and, to crown all, the prima donna has a cold, sore 



46 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

throat, fever, spasms, and 'the thousand ills that flesh 
is heir to,' and cannot sing in the advertised opera. All 
these germs of rebellion, sprouting forth under one roof, 
at the same moment, would perplex an old manager, 
and are enough to drive a new one mad." A third 
writer spoke out yet more plainly. " Konconi and 
Frezzolini are at loggerheads, and won't meet at re- 
hearsal. Grisi refuses to allow anybody else the use of 
her Pollione. Poor Moltini has unconsciously offended 
Persiani, by singing so well last Thursday, when she 
could not. Madame Konconi vows that her caro sposo 
shall not play his favourite part in ' Torquato Tasso,' 
unless sJie herself personates his adored Leonora ; and 
Signor Poggi cannot sing in the ' Bravo,' which requires 
two tenors, because the other gentleman of the establish- 
ment refuses to ' play second fiddle.' " One who" seems 
to comprehend the true situation of affairs, and the 
original foundation of all the intrigues and cabals, 
writes (somewhat prematurely) in the following strain : 
"The knell of the ' Old Guard' has tolled. Secure in 
their fancied might, the Grisi, the Tamburini, and even 
the Mario, bound the administration, as mere helots, 
to the wheels of their car of victory. Surrounded by a 
halo of false brilliancy, and strong in their sole posses- 
sion of the public, they grew into feverish independence. 
Ko new talent was suffered to move in the same orbit, 
or derange their planetary system. Their strength lies 
in their unity ; one stick of the bundle removed — and 
lo ! their power is scattered !" Thus prophesied the 
scribe. But their power was not yet scattered, although 
resolutely withstood. The final struggle, which led to 
secession, was still to come. 

Under the above-mentioned disadvantages, however. 



POPULARITY OF CEEITO. 47 

the management held on its course, and fought the 
battle perseveringly. The " Cantatrici Villane " of 
Fioravanti was given, with Lablache and his son, 
while Frezzolini and Persiaui appeared in rival competi- 
tion, the former artist showing her good feeling, as well 
as her acquaintance with the old school, by undertaking 
a part of minor importance. The revival was a " hit." 
It certainly would have been hard, when " the modern" 
was so unwillingly accepted, if " the old-fashioned " had 
not found favour with the exclusive worshippers of the 
past. Guy Stephan, in a new ballet, called " La 
Fiancee," but more especially Cerito, in " L'Eleve de 
r Amour," gave additional spirit to the programme of the 
season. The latter exquisite danseuse was popularly 
said to possess the power of calming down all the con- 
tending elements by one rond de jambes. 



48 



CHAPTER VI. 

Season of 1842 (Continued)— Visit of the Queen to the Opera after the 
Attempt upon her Life — Enthusiasm displayed by Audience-r- 
Grandeur of the real " Spectacle " — Second Engagement of Made- 
moiselle Rachel at Her Majesty's Theatre — Her Success in " Les 
Horaces" — American Anecdote — Reappearance of Rubini — Undi- 
minished Popularity of this Singer— The " Stabat Mater" of 
Rossini given, with -great power, at Her Majesty's Theatre — Ballet 
of "Alma,'' with Signer Costa's Music, Successful — Illness of 
Madame Persiani — Dissatisfaction of the Audience at th« Change of 
Performance — Tumultuous Uproar — The Opera not allowed to 
Proceed — The Ballet alone given — Efforts of the Manager to 
Ensure the Performance of the Operas announced — Farewell of 
Rubini — Close of the Season of 1842. 



On the 26tli May, 1842, the great ball, given for the 
relief of the distress among the Spitalfields weavers, took 
place at the opera ; but splendid as were the glories of 
this fete, in which Royalty took a prominent part, and 
much as it absorbed public attention at the time, the 
record of its brilliancy does not properly belong to 
a history of the management of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
Far more interesting in its way, although still not 
directly connected with the subject, was the appearance 
of the Queen in the theatre on the 31st May, being the 
evening after an insane attempt upon her life. The 
visit of Her Majesty had been expected. The opera 
house was filled in every part to overflowing ; and on 



THE QUEEN AT THE OPERA. 49 

the entrance of the Queen the expression of enthusiasm 
was elaetrical. The whole audience rose to its feet, and 
one loud deep burst of congratulatory applause burst 
forth from the vast concourse of human beings. Hats 
and handkerchiefs were waved. Many ladies sobbed 
aloud. During this demonstration the Queen stood at 
the front of her box and curtsied repeatedly, while 
Prince Albert bowed in reply to the deafening congratu- 
lations. The audience would not allow the opera to 
proceed till the " National Anthem " had been sung, 
and, as a mark of especial respect, Lablache and Persiani 
joined the rest of the company. At the words " Scatter 
her enemies," in particular, the most deafening acclama- 
tions arose, and one cheer more was raised when Her 
Majesty resumed her seat in the corner of the box. 

On this memorable evening, Mercadante's opera, 
" Elena Uberti " was performed for the first time in 
Italian, an English version, entitled " Elena di Feltre," 
having been produced some time back at Covent Garden 
Theatre, during the engagement of Miss Adelaide 
Kemble. The principal character was sustained by 
Frezzolini, but it made no remarkable sensation. Soon 
afterwards there were a few performances of the 
" Barbiere," in which Eonconi roused his usually luke- 
warm hearers to something bordering upon enthusiasm 
by his characteristic acting in the small part of Don 
Basilio. He ought, unquestionably, to have played 
Figaro, and complaints were made to the manage- 
ment on the subject, but Figaro had been given to 
Federico Lablache (who had already sung the part in 
Paris), in consequence of a promise made to his father 
tQ that effect. 

To these succeeded the long-announced performances 

E 



50 REMINISCENCES OFTHE OPERA. 

of Mademoiselle Kachel, given on the "off" nights. This 
was the second appearance of this remarkable artist in 
England. During the previous season, the enthusiasm 
she had excited among the higher circles had been 
intense. She had been favoured by Royalty, courted 
and flattered by the aristocracy, made the great Lioness 
of the season by society. Her renewed visit, therefore, to 
the capital of laperfide Albion, where, though she had 
first approached it with some fear and repugnance, she 
had been gloriously received, was now hailed as one of 
the great events of the season. 

It would be scarcely justifiable to enter here into 
details of the career of this gifted woman. If less 
courted during this second season by the high and ex- 
clusive, she was received by the general public with 
even greater triumph than on the previous occasion. 
Fashion had then determined her artistic position ; 
and the ukase of fashion was, in this instance, founded 
on the highest truth and justice. The engagement was 
brilliant, and, I may add, remunerative ; while my social 
relations with the remarkable artist were of the 
pleasantest kind, and remained so all through her few 
remaining years of existence. The spirit of exaction 
and rapacity of which she has been so frequently 
accused, was certainly never obtruded upon the 
English manager. Supported by an efficient company, 
among which was the elegant and accomplished Made- 
moiselle Eabut (now Madame Fechter), Mademoiselle 
Eachel found means to add to her great fame in a 
country where not even a confirmation of her previous 
reputation had been expected. 

Her first appearance was on the 10th June, 1842, in 
" Les Horaces," a tragedy in which her powers were 



MADEMOISELLE RACHEL. 51 

best capable of producing a marked and striking effect, 
inasmuch as the expectation of the audience was kept 
in suspense during three acts, to be kindled into an en- 
thusiasm amounting to frenzy by the grand burst of 
declamation in the fourth. After this first perfor- 
mance — skilfully selected to lead on the public mind — 
every night brought triumph to Mademoiselle Kachel. 
In '' Bajazet," in " Andromaque," in " Marie Stuart," 
she electrified the house ; and even in the monotonous 
" Ariane," of Thomas Corneille, and the dull " Tan- 
crede," of Voltaire, she worked up her audience by the 
force of her impersonations to a state of frantic ad- 
miration. Great indeed must have been the power of 
this young actress to have not only reconciled the 
English taste to the uncongenial classicalities of French 
" legitimate " tragedy, but to have produced in her 
audience a positive enthusiasm. 

It is a genuine fact, that many ladies fainted from 
emotion during these representations. One was carried 
insensible from the theatre, in spite of all efforts to 
recover her. On this circumstance being told to an 
American manager, he exclaimed, " Oh ! that's nothing ! 
She ought to have died in the theatre ! The effect would 
have been tremendous ! What a good puff lost !" 

The humble origin of Mademoiselle Eachel is well 
known, but few perhaps are aware that she had not 
received in her youth the commonest rudiments of edu- 
cation, and that she taught herself writing merely by 
copying the manuscript of others. On her first intro- 
duction into high society she was greatly embarrassed 
by the conventions of the table, and the question that 
once arose in her mind, at a grand dinner, as to the 

E 2 



52 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEIU. 

proper use of the knife and fork in the consumption of 
asparagus, was infinitely embarrassing. 

Six years afterwards, when France was in the middle 
of the excitement caused by the revolution of 1848, 
Mademoiselle Rachel, it will be remembered, created a 
furore by singing the " Marseillaise," at the Theatre Fran- 
qais, attired as the allegorical figure of Liberty. She 
subsequently told me that she took her attitude from the 
figure of Liberty among the victories on the Arc de 
Triomphe, jn the Ghamps Elysees. 

And here I may remark, upon Rachel's manner of 
draping her person, in antique character, that she seemed 
to wear garments which had not been prepared by a 
sempstress, but which adapted themselves to the figure, 
just as though they had been thrown over the person by 
the wearer. Her appearance was indeed conformable in 
all respects to the ideal of the antique. 

The next great event, and one which brought my first 
season through all its difficulties and dangers to a suc- 
cessful conclusion, was the re-appearance of the great 
tenor Rubini, He was announced for a imited number 
of nights only, previous to his final retirement from 
the stage. The intense desire to hear the last notes of 
this long-established favorite of the frequenters of the 
opera, brought crowded houses, during every one of his 
performances, which commenced on the 13th of June, 
until the end of the season. In the " Sonnambula," in 
"Don Giovanni," in the " Puritani," in the "Matri- 
monio Segreto," in "Anna Bolena," in " Otello," in 
'• Cosi Fan Tutti," and in his favourite air from the 
" Pirata" (given on the nights when he did not appear 
in a whole opera), sung with an embroidery as deli- 
cate as Mechlin lace — in all these parts he was listened 



BALLET OF ALMA. 53 

to with rapture, up to his final farewell. The public 
prints of the day tell, night by night, the same tale of 
" overcrowded and fashionable audiences," and of 
" tumultuous applause." 

At this time negociations were on foot to induce 
Duprez, then in the height of his popularity, to appear 
on the same night, and even in the same opera, with the 
favourite Italian. But this curious suggestion never 
reached a satisfactory realization. 

When I state that Duprez was desirous of appearing 
as Otello and had conceived the hope that Rubini 
might be induced to sing " Eodrigo," the reason why 
the negociation failed will be obvious enough. 

The production of the "Stabat Mater," of Rossini, cer- 
tainly was not absolutely new to this country, but it was 
given with a " cast " combining all the great talent 
at my disposal, and proved, in spite of sundry preliminary 
"carpings and cavillings," a successful speculation to 
the management. And so was the revival of Mozart's 
" Cosi Fan Tutti," thanks to the support of the 
" Classicists." 

The pretty ballet of " Alma " (the music of which 
was by Costa), enabled the favourite Cerito to display 
her most alluring graces, as a danseuse ; and thus the ma- 
jestic bark of Her Majesty's Theatre seemed to be float- 
ing down the agitated stream towards its haven of rest, 
with favouring breezes, and with gilded banners. 

It was the talent displayed by Perrot in the composi- 
tion and execution of the pas de fascination in this 
ballet, which induced me to fix on him as my future 
"Maitre de Ballet." Cerito, although a charming 
dancer, had no great talent as a pantomimic artist ; and 
M. Deshayes had been requested to arrange her part 



54 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEKA. 

accordingly — the principal pantomimic action falling to 
the lot of Perrot. Certainly it was the pas de trots in 
"Alma" which raised to its height what the colder 
spirits of the time were pleased to call the Cerito-mania. 
There is nothing, indeed, at the present day that can be 
compared with the almost frenzied enthusiasm which a 
popular danseuse could create twenty years ago. 

Towards the close of my voyage, however, it became 
apparent that my course was not destined to terminate 
without a " squall," In the history of my management 
this must have its page of record, inasmuch as it has an 
intimate connexion with circumstances already narrated, 
as well as with important events yet in store. 

On Saturday, the 25th June, Madame Persiani was 
announced to make her appearance in the " Puritan!." 
But at a late hour the favourite prima donna sent word 
to the theatre that she was too ill to be able to sing. 
The illness appears on this occasion to have been a real 
one, and not the mere indisposition of intrigue. Some time 
passed in verifying the actual state of the case, and it 
was only a very few minutes before the opening of the 
doors that a genuine naedical certificate could be posted 
at all the entrances, giving assurance of the inability of 
the lady to appear, together with an announcement of 
the necessity of changing the opera to " Beatrice di 
Tenda," with Madame Frezzolini. ^ The house was 
crowded, and at the very commencement of the even- 
ing the disappointed public began to give vent to its 
annoyance by hissing and hooting. This time it was 
the genuine public which had taken the initiative : — 
having been so often cheated of their expected evening's 
entertainment by the caprices, the cabals, and the ill- 
humours of the artists, they now gave way at last to 



AN ANGERED PUBLIC. 55 

strong manifestations of displeasure, pouring, of course, 
the vials of wrath on the head of the management. The 
public had learned a lesson from that egregious comedy, 
got up by a cabal, in the previous year, the "Tamburini 
Kow," and had learned that lesson so as to " better the 
instruction." 

For two long hours and more the hissing and yelling 
continued. In vain the opera was several times com- 
menced ; in vain Eubini appeared as a peace-maker, 
offering to sing the favourite " Vivi Tu." In vain ; after 
a futile -attempt of M. Laurent, the stage-manager, to 
address the audience in Frencli — a proceeding which only 
■ increased the fearful storm — I myself, as the manager, 
came forward, and offered the truth in the way of ex- 
planation. In vain I urged, as far as my voice could be 
heard in the din of tempest, that it was not fair that 
when I was tumultuously called to give an explanation 
the explanation was not to be heard — that "health and 
sickness were not in my hands." Nothing could calm 
the outraged public; the storm "waxed fast and 
furious." Many ladies left the house in terror. The 
Queen, who, it was stated, had intended to visit the 
opera, was informed by messenger of the tumult, and did 
not leave the palace. The greater part of the evening 
passed before I could make the audience understand that 
the money would be returned at the doors to those who 
felt themselves aggrieved. This announcement at last 
pacified the malcontents ; but it was now too late to 
allow the performance to proceed. No opera was per- 
formed at all ! Cerito appeared once more as the good 
genius to quell the storm : and the ballet alone was at 
lengtji given, without any further opposition. 

Such Avas one of the results of the long series of cabals 



56 REMINISCENCES OJ THE OPERA. 

and hindrances on the part of the artists, by which, 
during the season, the managementhad been tampered with 
and tyrannised and the public set at naught. Such was 
the final coup which led the management to the resolu- 
tion that cdutequ'il cdute, the fatal "cold" and "illness" 
system should by any means be done away with, under 
the new direction. Illnesses, be it understood, were 
not confined to the vieille garde. Ednconi was con- 
tinually afflicted with an dbassamento di voce by superior 
command, when his female counsellor fretted imder the 
mortification of not being allowed to sing. One after- 
noon, not long before the performance, when Eonconi 
had w;ritten to say that one of these dbassamenti pre- 
vented his singing, I visited him with the physician. 
The singer expressed his regrets in a hollow whisper. 
But Eonconi's consummate powers as an actor were not 
unknown to me, and I naturally doubted the reality of 
this whispering performance. Affecting to be its dupe, 
however, I proceeded to talk upon a topic which I knew 
would greatly interest the supposed invalid. In a 
moment Eonconi warmed up ; the feigned voice was for- 
gotten : and the wonted tones burst forth in the anima- 
tion of the discourse. Caught in the fact, the singer 
ascribed his marvellous recovery to the mere presence 
of the doctor. He sang that night, and with more than 
usual vigour. The ahassamenti, it was found, generally 
occurred when Eonconi was cast to sing with Frezzolini, 
whom his wife detested. 

By such and similar means, which I eventually adopted 
to terminate abuses of this description, a change of per- 
formance became m after seasons a rarity and an excep- 
tion, instead of being the chronic habit of operatic pro- 
ceedings in the Haymarket, 



CLOSE OF THE SEASON. 57 

It may be mentioned by way of completing the record, 
that " Anna Bolena," with Frezzolini, and " Roberto 
Devereux," with Moltini, were given this year without 
creating any marked sensation, although the former lady 
raised herself considerably in public estimation by her 
impersonation of her part ; and that with the "farewell" 
of Signor Rubini — whose last appearances drew over- 
flowing houses — the chequered season of 1842 — the first 
of my management — came to a close. 

Upon the whole, the season might be pronounced suc- 
cessful and satisfactory. Of one result there could be 
no doubt — I made head against the difficulties which 
surrounded my first experiment, so as to earn the good 
will and confidence of the subscribers, and establish my 
future position with the public. That the bark had not 
been wrecked among the rocks and quicksands of the 
enterprise seemed a wonder. That it reached port in 
safety was almost equivalent to a triumph. 



58 



CHAPTER VIT. 

Auspicious Dawn of the Season of 1848 — The Discordant Elements within 
the Walls Calmed Down through the Agency of Lablache — Strength 
of the Company — ^The, Ballet — Splendour of its Composition — 
Rentree of Fanny EUsler — ^Dissatisfaction of the Vocalists at ^he 
Prominence given to the Ballet — ^Its Distant Consequences Adverted 
to — The " House " Newly Decorated for the Season of 1843 — 
Opening of the Season in March — '•' Fops' Alley " — ^Its Ancient Cha- 
racter Described — Success of Adfele Dumilatre — D6but of Fornasari 
— His Success in the " Belisario " of Donizetti — Rentree of Madame 
Grisi and Mario after Easter — "Semiramide" — JBrambiUa — I'roduc- 
tion of " Linda di Chamouni " and " Don Pascpale." 

OvERCHAEGED with stormy clouds as had been the whole 
horizon during my first season, that of 1843 appears to 
have commenced and progressed with a brilliant sun 
shining down on the fortunes of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
That there were occasional showers and even squalls 
was no more than I might have expected, glorious as 
may have been the " summer skies " of fortune. They 
were but passing storms, however, only serving to clear 
the air after their occurrence. 

The epoch when the events to be recorded are but 
few, is generally a happy one in history. A govern- 
ment is assumed to be prosperous when its annals are 
scanty, and wanting in stirring interest. Keeping to the 
steady and satisfactory tenor of its way, the season of 
1843 offers little of salient incident to be noted here. 



ARTISTS EXPECTED. 59 

It may then be considered as fortunate, and there is no 
doubt that in all essential respects it was so. 

Nothing certainly could be more cheering than the 
auspices under which the doors of the theatre opened 
once more to the public. The phalanx of artists in 
every department presented an imposing show in the 
programme of the coming season. Feuds and dissensions 
were in abeyance for a time. Madame Grisi, the 
favourite of past seasons, whose absence in the previous 
year had been regretted (although the circumstances 
attending that absence were looked upon with an in- 
dulgent eye), appeared at the head of the list — ^the dis- 
agreement of last season with her and Mario having 
been smoothed over through the intervention of Lablache. 
Madame Persiani, another of the most popular singers 
of the time, retained her place. Madame Mbltini— 
who, although she never seems to have attained any 
high pitch of popularity, was admired by a large class 
of opera-goers for her beauty and the quality of her voice 
— ^figured also on the programme. 

The place of contralto was ably filled by Madame 
Brambilla, always welcome as the best singer of her 
class then on the boards. All shortcomings of the 
previous season were to be forgiven. Signor Mario, 
who figured as one of the leading tenors, and Signor 
Conti, who enjoyed a great continental reputation as a 
" tenore di forza," and had been long a popular favourite 
at Madrid, was announced as the other tenor for " the 
lead." Rubini had disappeared from the boards, and 
was not to be lured from his retirement. Tamburini, 
no longer figured in the announcements; he seems 
to have been little thought of, and less regretted, not- 
withstanding all the clamours of the past. Ronconi was 



60 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

no longer among the elus. He had established himself 
as a favourite during the previous season, and why he 
was not re-engaged did not so very clearly appear. 
Popular report pointed at hindrances, arising from the 
" Caudle " treaty referred to in the last chapter, and at 
considerable opposition on the part of " Madame," whose 
failure in the previous season entirely precluded all idea of 
her being again enlisted; and popular rumour was for once 
correct. In the place of hasso cantanie, now vacant, Signor 
Fornasari was promised to the subscribers — a singer of 
colossal reputation, acquired in Italy ; and the great 
Lablache, with his son Federico, and Panzini, completed 
the list of principal singers. Satisfactory, and in many 
respects brilliant as was the promise implied in the pub- 
lication of these names, the prospects of the ballet were 
more brilliant still. 

As I have before remarked, these were days when 
the baUet held a far higher position in the estimation of 
the frequenters of the opera-house than it does at pre- 
sent. Many persons of rank and fashion, had they been 
frank enough to avow their opinion openly, would 
emphatically have declared that they looked forward 
to the ballet as the great attraction of the season. 
Modern opera-goers can form but little idea of the 
eagerness with which the list of danseuses was scanned, 
or of the " sensation " excited by a new dancer or 
a new ballet. Those who cater for Her Majesty's 
Theatre are still necessitated to maintain, to a certain 
extent, the prestige of ancient days, but the pristine 
glories of the ballet are departed. 

In the season of 1843, the promised list contained the 
names of Fanny EUsler, the great danseuse and equally 
great pantomimist — the only artist of the century, per- 



OPENING OF SEASON 1848. 61 

haps, who combined in so striking a degree the two 
talents of actress and dancer; of Cerito, the charm- 
ing; and of Adele Dumilatre, the incarnation of grace, 
who was to make her first appearance in England. 
Along with these was Guy Stephan, who struggled hard 
to maintain her place by the side of her more distin- 
guished compeers, with a host of other attractive dancers. 
Mademoiselle Taglioni — the Taglioni — also figured among 
the possible comers. But, for some reason or other, 
this promise was not fulfilled. The days of the great 
combination afterwards known and talked of, the famous 
pas de quatre, were still to come, 

Perrot, one of the most popular dancers who ever 
sprang upon the English boards, and Saint-Leon, an ac- 
complished violinist as well as dancer, were also an- 
nounced, along with a number of pantomimists. The 
most enticing choreographic banquet was promised in 
this " bill of fare," and the ballet of the season accord- 
ingly proved one of the richest treats ever provided for 
the subscribers and the public. The preference shown to 
this portion of the entertainments at Her Majesty's 
Theatre rankled doubtless in the minds of many operatic 
artists. It was destined, ere many years, to form one 
of the most notable subjects of discontent, and to con- 
stitute one of the cogent causes of the great rupture 
which actually did ensue. 

During the recess the theatre had been entirely re- 
novated and redecorated, and on Saturday the 11th of 
March it reopened, with considerable eclat. I had 
been fortunate enough to provide more satisfactorily 
than usual for the pre-Easter campaign. An arrange- 
ment had been made with the director of the Paris 
Italian Opera, and Madame Persiani was secured as a 



62 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

star for the opening nights of the setison. Conti, the 
tenor, of whom much was expected, was also announced; 
and in a short time Fornasari, heralded by all the 
trumpets of Italy as the king of bassi, was to make 
his appearance. For the opening of the season, also, 
Fanny Ellsler was to arrive, she having lately termi- 
nated her triumphant career in America ; and the debut 
of Adele Dumil^tre, whose Parisian reputation was great, 
added to the attractions of the usually dull Lenten 
entertainment, and created quite a thrill of expectation 
among the frequenters of " Fops' Alley." Never was 
the preliminary season looked forward to with more im- 
patience, so unusual was a programme containing such a 
display of talent at that season of the year. 

It may not be out of place, before proceeding with the 
history of the season of the year 1843, to give a brief 
notice of this same " Fops' Alley " just casually men- 
tioned. The " Fops' Alley " is now among the traditions 
of the past, and younger opera-goers, among the male 
sex especially, may feel some interest in a description of 
a locality which was not unjustly reckoned among the 
prominent features of the opera, when the Italian Opera 
House stood alone. 

In those days the pit was extensive ; the stalls, ori- 
ginally introduced by M. Laporte, being comparatively 
few in number. From an entrance, occupying the 
centre of the lowest tier of boxes, a few steps descended 
to the back of the pit, down the centre of which a broad 
space was left unencumbered to within a few feet of 
the orchestra. This formed the renowned "Fops' 
Alley," the time-honoured celebrity of which I so much 
respected that, waving considerations of personal ad- 
vantage, I objected to increase the number of the stalls. 



63 

Ample room was left also between the pit seats and the 
boxes on the pit tier, and thus there was space allowing 
the habitues to lounge about at their leisure. 

Fops' Alley, as the name implied, was an ancient insti- 
tution. The very term " Fop " had already become 
extinct in the earliest days of my management. The 
" Dandy " was all but antiquated, while the " Swell " 
had not yet risen to his recent supremacy. But no 
matter for the designation, the meaning of the term 
was fully understood and admitted as a generally recog- 
nised reality. It was the practice of the day for all the 
more " exquisite " and fashionable of the male operatic 
patrons to quit their boxes or their scanty stalls during 
various portions of the performance, and to fill the 
vacant spaces in the centre and sides of the pit, where 
they could laugh, loxinge, chatter, eye the boxes from 
convenient vantage points, and likewise criticise and ap- 
plaud in common. The " meetings and greetings " 
that took place in the pit of the opera were looked upon 
as an essential portion of the evening's entertainment. 
All that was aristocratic, distinguished, fashionable, or 
(still more) would-be fashionable, met, swarmed, greeted, 
babbled in an ever-seething, ever-varying crowd. Many 
of the young " exquisites " of that period have since 
disappeared from the arena of the world as from that of 
the opera ; many others have fallen into " the sere and 
yellow leaf," and have been elbowed from their thrones 
by impertinently handsome young " Dundrearys " of a 
later day. But the living heroes of the past may have 
the consolation of knowing that modern " Fops " possess 
no longer this special ground whereon to display their 
social importance. Fops' Alley is no more. 

On Saturday the 11th March, then, the season of 1843 



64: REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEllA. 

opened — and opened brilliantly, in spite of the question- 
able choice of the opera of the night. The " Adelia " 
of Donizetti had been selected for the reappearance 
of Persiani and the debut of Conti. "Adelia" had 
never been accounted one of the most esteemed operas 
of the prolific composer, even in Italy. With the anti- 
Donizetti feeling strong in England (the bigoted lovers 
of the old school having just then no one else to abuse, 
in default of the Verdi, who was yet to come), the 
choice; was, as all must admit, hazardous. The opera, 
in a musical point of view, was not a success ; although 
the remarkable execution of Persiani, who was enabled 
to show all her grace and flexibility in a rondo at the 
conclusion, " brought down the curtain " with applause; 
Conti was received as a steady, zealous, and even ener- 
getic tenor, but failed to excite any marked enthusiasm, 
or to realise the high expectations of the public. " Far 
more interesting than the opera," said journals of the 
day, " was the divertissement of ' L'Aurore,' which in- 
troduced to this country Mademoiselle Adele Dumilatre." 
The debutante achieved a triumph, and was declared one 
of the effective representatives of the " ideal " school of 
dancing (of which Taglioni was the head), in contra- 
distinction to ' the " realistic " school of Cerito and 
others. 

Unfortunately, an accident which happened to Perrot 
on the opening night, in a pas de dense with the new 
danseuse, somewhat marred the completeness of the per- 
formance. But the success of Dumilatre was decided. 

On the very same evening, Fanny EUsler made her 
reappearance in the sprightly ballet of the " Tarentule." 
It was in a ballet like this — a ballet with an inter- 
esting story and a simply constructed plot — a ballet 



DiBUT OF FORNASARI. 65 

aifording opportunities to the actress as well as the 
dancer, that this great artist shone. Not that her 
" Tarantule " permitted to her so fine a display of 
acting as did her "Gipsy"* for instance, with its original 
powerfully tragic denouement. But her exquisitely keen 
sense of humour, tempered by truth and grace, had in 
this ballet excellent occasion to reveal itself. Although, 
as already observed, these were times when a ballet 
with something like a plot was not considered a nuisance 
and a " bore," the production of a ballet d'action and 
a divertissement both on one evening, each with such an 
abundant display of talent, will perhaps appear extra- 
ordinary. I should explain that Fanny EUsler had dis- 
puted the authority of her agent, so that it was 
uncertain whether she could come to London. I had 
therefore secured the appearance of Adele Dumil&tre, that 
my house might not open without a first-rate danseuse. 
Fanny EUsler coming after all, I found myself somewhat 
blessed with an embarras de richesses. 

The programme of the first night, in spite of the 
listlessness with which the opera of "Adelia" was received, 
continued, with some slight variations in the ballet de- 
partment, until the debut of Fornasari on the 25th of 
March. 

It is a very difficult task to enter upon the subject of 
this once admired basso. His first appearance in Doni- 
zetti's " Belisario " was justly hailed with rapture. Day 
after day the critical notices of the press teemed with 
eulogiums of the strongest kind. The unanimity of the 
critics was wonderful. Nothing was to be seen but the 
most abundant praise of his " admirable voice," his 

* The story of the Gipsy is embodied in the libretto of M. Balf e's 
popular opera, the " Bohemian Girl." 

F 



66 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

" perfect execution," his " great draJnatic genius," his 
" wonderfully handsome person." No such debut had 
been witnessed, they all assured the world, in the memory 
of man ; and points in acting were noted as traits of 
noble genius, of which the artist himself was ignorant. 
"Words of sufficient superlative import could scarcely be 
found to proclaim his triumph. He was " the great 
success of a successful season." 

So spoke the almost unanimous voice of the press, and 
I am bound to admit that the success of Fornasari in 
" Belisario," and some other parts, was unquestionably- 
great. His looks, stature, costume, and " make up," 
rendered him the heau ideal of the victorious Roman 
General in the first act. No painter could have repre- 
sented a personage more admirably calculated to satisfy 
the imagination and secure the sympathies of the spec- 
tator. As soon as he appeared the audience seemed 
struck as by an electric shock, and a genuine burst of 
applause, speedily warming into enthusiasm, recognised 
and welcomed the artist. I may here mention that 
the Duchess of Cambridge, one of the leading patron- 
esses of the opera, expressed to me her profound ad- 
miration of Fornasari's performance, as well as the 
present Duke, then " Prince George," who evinced his 
astonishment that so great an artist could have existed 
without being generally known in England. 

There can be no doubt that his first part, Belisario, 
was also his best ; but it was long before the press was 
able to recede from the storm of popularity it had some- 
what prematurely raised, and slow were the critics to 
find any drawback to the worship of the idol they had 
set up. In time, however, the tumult of laudation 
settled down to a calmer appreciation of Fornasari's real 



DECLINE OF FORNASARl. 67 

merits. It is eriough for tlie purposes of this history of 
a management to record that the engagement of this 
singer in 1843 was one of the great "hits" of the season. 
It brought the manager a rich harvest, the result of his 
fortunate appreciation of the popular taste. 

With the exception of two performances of "LaSonnam- 
bula," in which Mario made his reappearance, Belisario 
occupied with great Mat the remaining early season, 
and never had Lenten operatics been so successful a 
speculation to any previous manager. To Mario the 
past had been forgiven. He was universally declared 
to have gained sensibly in " finish " and style ; and from 
his reappearance may be dated the commencement of 
that confirmed and undisputed popularity which he 
afterwards enjoyed. It was this revival of " La Sonnam- 
bula," however, which caused a reaction against the 
previously immense popularity of Fornasari. He played 
the Count, and gave to the part all the expression of 
which it is capable ; but people would compare the 
Count with Belisario, and were, of course, disappointed. 

On the opening night after Easter, Grisi and La- 
blache resumed their wonted places in " Norma," 
Madame Moltini taking the part of Adelgisa, and giving 
it a prominence too seldom awarded to it. " Semi- 
ramide" followed, with Grisi and Fornasari, Madame 
Brambilla (who for four years had been absent from 
England) taking the part of Arsace ; and this opera 
drew some of the most crowded houses of the season. 
Then reappeared " II Barbiere," with Grisi, Mario, and 
Fornasari, the last again to be admired as Figaro; 
although it was now admitted that he was " better fitted 
in statelier parts." " Don Giovanni " took the popular 
position next, with Grisi, Moltini, and Pgrsiani, and 

f2 



68 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Fornasari as the Don ; the last still the subject of ex- 
traordinary laudation, one paper alone discovering that 
'' the enthusiasm of the town is already cooling with 
respect to the new basso." The " Gazza Ladra" was 
produced for the benefit of the dancer St. Leon, who 
after the opera executed with brilliancy a solo on the 
violin ; " I Puritani," with Grisi as Elvira, for that of 
Perrot. Then was revived '' Lucrezia," with Lablache 
as Alfonso, to support the great Lucrezia of her time, 
Madame Grisi ; Mario again winning his way gallantly 
in furtherance of his rising fame as Gennaro, the 
part in which he had first appeared before a London 
public. 

Two operas first introduced during this season de- 
mand more especial mention — " Linda di Chamouni" and 
" Don Pasquale." Both were by Donizetti, whose 
reputation as. a composer was rising in England, notwith- 
standing old prejudices. The latter work had been 
eminently successful in Paris and the former in 
Vienna, and they were now placed on their trial before 
an English audience. Each of these operas, it may be as 
well to state at once, proved brilliantly successful. 

"Linda di Chamouni " was produced, for the benefit 
of Madame Persiani, on the 1st of June. The cast, in- 
cluding Persiani herself, Brarabilla, Mario, Lablache, 
Fornasari, and: Federico Lablache, was a great, almost 
a perfect one. The town was " taken by storm," and I 
was universally congratulated on the great success 
achieved. It is somewhat curious to see how the 
musical world of that day contrived to recede from the 
previous tones of depreciation with which it had been 
the fashion to receive the operas of Donizetti, "Dramas 
of a higher class," people affirmed, " were unsuited to 



" DON PASQUALE." 69 

Donizetti's powers. "Unable to cope with the grand and 
terrible, he can treat a subject like this with considerable 
feeling." He had displayed "more aim at the chaste and 
pathetic, less confidence iii naive and unmeaning com- 
mon-place." He was suddenly found to possess "to a 
considerable degree the gift of melody." And so on, and 
so on, in varied phrase of retractation. Some of the 
would-be consistent, it is true, declared the music 
" poor," with " no richness of harmony, no depth of 
combination," or admitted, at most, that it was the 
" least offensive " of Donizetti's operas. As for the 
public, it insisted on judging the opera from its own 
point of view : it applauded, it crowded to the repre- 
sentations, it insisted upon making it a success. 

On the 29th of June, for the benefit of Lablache, I 
produced " Don Pasquale." Grisi, Mario, Fornasari, 
and Lablache afforded an admirable quatuor for the 
performance of this genial opera buffa, the success of 
which was perhaps even greater than that of "Linda." 
I might now indeed deem myself fortunate, for bringing 
out in one season two new operas, each of which won 
such golden opinions. Warned by this second success, 
the press now grew lavish in their praise of Donizetti. 
He was declared to have composed his Parisian opera 
in his " happiest vein." It was studded with " musical 
beauties," and contained " more marks of originality 
that most of his works," &c., &c. In fact, the tide not only 
changed, but now flowed strongly in favour of the once 
despised composer. The racy comic humour of La- 
blache, and the spirit of Grisi, combined with the 
pleasant and careful execution of Mario and Fornasari, 
may have contributed sensibly to a success, nowise cer- 
tainly promoted by the unusually meagre, flimsy libretto. 



70 REMINISCENCES OF THE OIERA. 

But, in a musical point of view, the verdict was cer- 
tainly favourable, and none could better recognise the 
fact than -the foi'tunate manager. 

While on the subject of Donizetti, I would observe 
that those of his operas which achieved the most marked 
success on the Anglo-Italian boards, in the teeth of 
the early opposition of the so-called classicists, were 
precisely those which have stood the test of time in 
Italy; and that, in this respect, the discrimination of 
English taste is attested. Few of the operas of his 
predecessors, including even Mozart and Rossini, have 
been equally fortunate in keeping the stage. At the 
same time, it should be borne in mind that many 
beautiful musical works have failed in establishing a 
footing, entirely through the weakness or dulness of the 
libretto. " Cosi Fan Tutte," "II Flauto Magico," and 
" II Seraglio," may all be cited as instances, together 
with a perfect host of Rossini's operas. It is evident 
that the success of " Guillaume Tell " was never com- 
mensurate, at least in Paris, to its marvellous musical 
merits, on account of a similar drawback ; and there is 
sufBcient cause to believe that the refusal of Rossini to 
compose any other opera after " Guillaume Tell," was 
mainly owing to the comparative coldness with which 
this work had been received by the Parisian public. 
The contrast of that coldness with the enthusiasm 
afterwards bestowed upon inferior productions by 
second-rate masters, is known to have been felt by him 
acutely. " Que voulez vous ?" he is narrated to have 
said : ^' Je ne suis qvCun compositeur, moi ! Eux, Us 
sont des hommes d'af aires." Scribe, it is well known, 
regretted, all his life, that- he had not been allowed to 
treat the subject of " William Tell " for Rossini ; and 



THE PRESS. 71 

there can be little doubt that with his power of artistic 
construction, combination of effects, and well-balanced 
contrast of " situations," he would have succeeded in 
producing a work more attractive, and thus iar more 
worthy of the great Maestro, than the heavy monotonous 
" book " of M, Jouy, a work devoid of variety of effects, 
and the heaviness of which is nowhere relieved by a 
change of tone in the colouring. 

As what I have said concerning the decline of 
Fornasari's popularity during this season might seem to 
imply a charge of capriciousness or defective judgment 
on the part of the professional critics, I will here say a 
few words respecting the press in general. The gentle- 
men of the " Fourth Estate," as it has been happily 
called, have difficult duties to perform. To write, on 
the instant, their impression of works just seen and 
heard, requires a steady hand and intelligent head ; and 
words must indeed possess supernatural vitality that 
could convey, at all times, such an account as will 
satisfy the cravings of admirers, the carpings of de- 
tractors, the impartial but varying critical judgment of 
connoisseurs, as well as reflect the impression made on 
the public. 

I have generally recognised in the members of the 
press, heart, principle, and right feeling ; and when the 
power entrusted to them, for good or for evil, is con- 
sidered, their impartiality is wonderful. They may, at 
times, possibly be " to our faults a little blind, and to 
our virtues very kind," but is it not well to temper 
justice with indulgence ? There are many great artists 
-whose rising talent has been encouraged at the com- 
mencement (when a word would have been sufficient to 
destroy), and developed by kindness on the part of the 



72 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

press, coupled -witli a judicious moderation in the 
exercise of critical acumen. 

There is no class of men from whose society I have 
derived more pleasure than the literary, particularly 
of that section connected with the press. The exigency 
of the public, requiring generally a report of the events 
almost as soon as they occur, necessitates in them an 
habitual readiness of expression particularly agreeable in 
the passing hours of recreation, when the flowers rather 
than the granite constructions of literature are welcome. 
My relations with many of the periodical critics — ^present 
to me at this moment — count amongst my most pleasing 
recollections. 

If the press were not unkind in my prosperity, they 
were truly kind to me in my adversity ; and indeed to 
thoroughly appreciate their sterling qualities, one must 
have passed through a varied career like mine, the last 
phase of which confirmed my belief that their sensi- 
bility to impressions, so necessary to the proper dis- 
charge of their arduous duties, belongs not less to the 
heart than to their talent and intelligence. 

While speaking of the press, a literary dinner occurs 
to my memory which, among a certain party, was long 
afterwards talked about as the " Banquet of the Wits." 
The dinner took place at my villa ; the guests, some ten 
or twelve, comprised several choice spirits of the day, 
and more than ordinary brilliancy was expected from 
the circumstance that Messrs. W. M. Thackeray and G. 
A. a Beckett (now, alas ! both deceased) were among 
their number. Expectation was grievously disappointed. 
Never was the "feast of reason" more insipid ; never did 
the "flow of soul" more closely approach stagnation. The 
smaller wits thought all the sparkling was to be done 



BANQUET OF THE WITS. 73 

by the more distinguished luminaries, and these, with 
distressing magnanimity, refused to outshine their less 
noted brethren. Thus a perfect equilibrium of dulness 
was preserved. 



74 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Season of 1843 (Continued) — ^The Ballet — Its Remarkable Brilliancy with 
Cerito, F. Kllsler, Dumilatre, Perrol^" State Visit " of Her Majesty 
to the Opera in Jiily — The " Pas de Deux " a Great Feature of the 
Evening — ^Rivalry of the Two Danseuses — First Appearance of Camillo 
Sivori, the Violinist, in England — His Triumphant Success — Lola 
Montez — Her Pretensions to the Bank of a "First Subject" — Ex- 
posure of their Fallacy — Lola Withdrawn from the Boards of the Opera 
by Myself on Conscientious Grounds — Exigent Demands upon the Ad- 
ministration of the Theatre by Persons of Rank and Influence, as 
well as by Artists — Satisfaction Generally Felt with the Perform- 
ances throughout the Season of 1843. 

The ballet having been considered so extremely impor- 
tant at this particular time, a brief record of its attrac- 
tion is necessary to complete my chronicle of this unusu- 
ally brilliant season. A divertissement rather than a 
ballet properly so called, under the title of " Un Bal 
Sous Louis XIV.," combined the talents of Fanny Ellsler 
and Dumilatre, who danced the Minuet de la Cour, 
Elssler being the cavalier. " La Gipsy," reduced to 
one act, afforded Fanny Ellsler an opportunity of being 
seen in one of her greatest triumphs. A Turkish diver- 
tissement, entitled "Les Houris," with Dumil§,tre as prin- 
cipal danseuse, crowded the " Fops' Alley." There 
were also detached pas, in which Guy Stephan and her 
seductive associates acquired a fair share of distinction. 
The brilliant ballet of " Alma," with Costa's varied 



, THE queen's state VISIT. 75 

music, introduced th(3 favourite Fanny Cerito once more ; 
another and still more attractive framework was found 
for the latter-named danseuse in " Ondine," which ran 
on until the end of the season ; whilst the great, the 
inimitable Fanny EUsler was afforded some scope for her 
histrionic genius in " Le Delire d'un Peintre." Brief as 
the chronicle may appear, the glories of the ballet may 
in this year be said to have almost reached their culmi- 
nating point. 

So ran on the season, triumphing in its course. But 
in this mere outline I have passed over certain events 
to which reference must now be made. 

The most important, as connected with the fortunes 
and reputation of the theatre, was unquestionably the 
visit of the Queen " in state." Friendly agencies were 
employed to procure this desired result, but fortune 
seemed determined to smile upon me just now in every 
way, and my task was not difficult. Several of the 
leading men of the day smoothed the path for the 
manager, and even strewed it in some sort with roses. 
The " state visit" was fixed for Thursday the 20th July, 
and there was considerable excitement existing on the 
occasion, not only as this was the first state visit since 
Her Majesty's accession, but for more than ten years no 
monarch had appeared in state at the opera-house. As 
may be supposed, considerable care and boundless 
expense were bestowed upon the decoration of the 
royal boxes ; and in spite of some carpings and cavil- 
lings at what were considered the exorbitant prices 
demanded, the evening passed over with eclat, not 
to say with triumph. The manager received the con- 
gratulations and moreover the thanks of royalty, and 
the sun of fortune seemed to shine upon him with 



76 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

unusual lustre. The opera of the evening was "II 
Barbiere," with Grisi, Mario, Lablache, and Fornasari, 
But so great was still the prestige of the ballet, that 
the chief excitement of the evening was produced by 
the charming pas de deux between Fanny EUsler and 
Cerito. This conjunction of the two great planets of 
" La Danse" was the result of a desire expressed by the 
Queen. All the skill and taste of Perrot had been em- 
ployed upon the construction of this " sensational " (as 
we should now call it) feat — and the effect proved 
unequivocally great. Captivating as were both the 
danseuses on this occasion — much as Cerito exerted all 
her powers — different as were the styles of the two 
rivals, and strong as both were in their partisans and 
supporters, there can be no doubt that, in the eyes of 
connoisseurs, the victory remained with Ellsler. 

Another event deserves mention, viz., the first appear- 
ance, in England, of Sivori, the violinist at Her Majesty'^ 
Theatre, on the 18th May of this year. Much credit was 
due, I had heard, to the talent of this celebrated pupil of 
the great Paganini, and at once I decided to bring him to 
England. He was received by the opera-frequenters 
with admiration, even with enthusiasm. The instrument 
he played upon was the magic violin bequeathed to him 
by his dying master, and the fanciful legends of Italy 
having set afloat a notion that the soul of Paganini 
had taken refuge in the instrument, the popular ear, 
charmed by the young artist, listened credulously to the 
fable. Even in England the press declared that "Sivori 
was not Sivori — it was Paganini restored to another gene- 
ration in a renovated and younger form." 

There is still another event remaining, in the circum- 
stances connected with which there is something so strangely 



LOLA MONTEZ. 77 

ludicrous, that I can scarcely look back upon it without a 
smile. This event was the appearance, as a danseuse, 
of the late celebrated " Lola Montez." It is not my in- 
tention to rake up the world-wide stories of this strange 
and fascinating woman, not long since passed from the 
world. Perhaps it will be sufficient to say frankly, that I 
was in this instance fairly " taken in." A noble lord 
(afterwards closely connected with the Foreign Office) 
had introduced the lady to my notice as the daughter 
of a celebrated Spanish Patriot and martyr, represent- 
ing her inerits as a dancer in so strong a light that 
her " appearance" was granted. The afterwards great 
Lola was received with rapture. Public, press, opera- 
goers, all gave way to such immoderate fits of enthu- 
siasm that it is difficult at this day to account for the 
strange infatuation which pervaded all ranks. True, the 
so-called " Sefiora" was singularly beautiful ; her style 
was new, and there was something jjf^iJanit and provoca- 
tive in the surprise created. Yet she had no pretensions 
to the title of " danseuse" in any sense ; to speak the 
plain truth, she was but the veriest novice in her art, 
which she had never studied, as an art, at all. I do not 
intend by this plain statement to declare that the French 
and Italian schools of dancing are alone to be endured 
by spectators of the highest class — for there is art in 
the Spanish school of dancing as well as in the others. 
But this spurious Spanish lady had no real knowledge of 
that which she professed. The whole affiiir was an im- 
posture ; and on the very night of her first appearance 
the truth exploded. Doubts already created were con- 
firmed, and the true Spaniards indignantly refused to 
acknowledge the impostor as an exponent of their 
national dance. On the discovery of the truth, I de» 



78 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

clined to allow the English adventuress, for such she was, 
another appearance on mj boards. And certain it is that 
I acted wisely, though I had to exercise the virtue of 
self-denial; as there is little doubt, from the recep- 
tion she had met with on the first nights, that the lovely 
woman would have drawn large sums of money to my 
treasury, for some time at least. In spite of the expos- 
tulations of the. "friends " of the lady— in spite of the 
deprecatory lettei's in which she earnestly denied her 
English origin, and boldly asserted that she was a true 
"Lola," a genuine "Montez" — in spite even of the desire 
expressed in high places to witness her strange perform- 
ance, I remained inflexible, and the false danseuse was 
never again allowed to exhibit her handsome person and 
her spurious graces at Her Majesty's Theatre. 

Smooth and pleasant as the pathway of management 
seemed at this time, it must not be supposed that it was 
altogether without its stumbling-blocks and petty hin- 
drances. The main difficulties had indeed been planed 
down ; but although the cabals of la vieille garde were in 
abeyance, or only faintly appeared during this year, 
there were a few rough places] in the otherwise straight 
and prosperous course. Part of these, certainly, arose 
from the repeated exigences of the great in name and 
position, and some few of the more influential of the 
subscribers. Demands for changes in the performance,, 
for the suppression of this opera or the repetition of 
that, to suit the convenience of one great person or 
another, for the purpose of serving a singer's interest or 
for the gi'atification of a passing fancy — all these were 
constant thorns in the side of a manager,, who was only 
desirous to conciliate all his patrons. When to such 
annoyances are -added the unreasonable requirements 



79 

and caprices of artists, with their angry expostulation 
relative to the position of boxes given, and "explosions," 
in which Mademoiselle Cerito, for instance, was continu- 
ally indulging, it may be easily conceived how that diffi- 
culties should habitually occur. 

Many of these were caused by a set of people (called 
by the Italians "procoli"), consisting of the fathers, 
mothers, aunts, or other relatives, real or fictitious, of 
the artists. These hangers-on consider their " vocation 
gone " if they do not " stir up the waters." The 
"Pere Cerito" was a notable specimen of the genus. 
He considered his own presence at the theatre as 
necessary as that of his daughter. In lauding her 
choice " effects," he would invariably speak collectively, 
and say, for instance, " Nous avons danse magnifique- 
ment ce soir." 

On the whole, however, there is not much left to 
record beyond the widely-spread satisfaction felt with 
regard to the performances during the glorious season of 
1843. 



80 



CHAPTER IX. 

Season of 1844 — Continued Prosperity — Countess of Cannazaro's Cook 
— ^Difficulty with Fornasari — Corelli^-" Esmeralda " — " Zampa" — 
Failure of Felice — Mademoiselle Favanti— Decline of Fomasari's 
Popularity — Costa's Bon Carlos — Bicci's Corrado d'AUamura — 
Strength of the Ballet — ^Equivocal Success of Moriani — ^Visit of the 
Emperor Nicholas — The Salvi Row — St. Leon and the Private Box — 
Musical Tact of Diplomatists — Sound and Colour. 

The season of 1844 opened with the " halo " of the past 
year still reflected on it. The fortunes of Her Majesty's 
Theatre were now, in the opinion of the public, firmly 
established in my hands. The permanent prosperity of 
the theatre was never for one moment doubted. Such 
was its apparent rude health, that no one dreamed of 
decline ; so radiant was its aspect, no one could suspect 
tliat misfortune would ever assail it, much less that it 
was ever to decay and fall to dissolution. The season 
of 1844, like that of 1843, offers but little occasion for 
remark, and few striking facts to record. On a sea ap- 
parently so unruffled, there seemed to exist no shoals to 
be marked on the navigation chart as dangerous, hardly 
as noticeable. 

Grisi and Persian!, the established and favourite 
prime donne, still headed the programme. Favanti 
(Miss Edwards) was announced. She came fortified 
by credentials from the first Italian artists and musicians, 



EUBINI. 81 

deriving additional strength from the favourable opinion 
of Signor Lablache. As one of the very few English 
singers who had, as yet, ventured to confront the pre- 
judices of their countrymen on an Italian stage in 
England, she was entitled to a fair hearing ; although 
she may not have dared to battle in favour of English 
art without assuming an Italian name. England has 
since learned to feel pride in her native singers, and if 
these would appear in Italian opera, they need no longer 
assume a name ending in "o," "a," or "i." 

Lablache, the Magnificent, was at his accustomed post in 
the opera hemisphere, the brilliant planet, accompanied by 
the revolving satellite, his son. Fornasari, too, who had 
sprung with one bound to the summit of popularity in this 
country, in the previous year, had to maintain his foot- 
ing. Overtures had been indirectly made by Tamburini 
to the management, but they never came to anything. 
The name of Signor Mario, gradually rising into celebrity, 
gladdened the eyes of the subscribers. Hopes had been 
entertained that Rubini might be induced to break 
through his resolution of the previous year, and 
once more to delight a London audience ; but in spite 
of very earnest efforts to secure his services, every 
appeal was in vain. Eubini's letters on this occasion 
evinced the most kindly feeling. " Se canto ancore," 
he wrote, " Canto per voi — vi do la mia parola." Again 
and again he repeated that should he ever sing again 
it would be for him whom he was pleased to call " his 
excellent, kind English manager." 

Rubini, whose " feathery notes," as they were termed 
(the expression died with him), so often brought tears 
to the eyes of his more sentimental admirers, was not 
only a man of most kindly feeling, but a " fellow of 

G 



82 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

infinite humour." I remember a comical scene that 
occurred at the theatre in which he and Lablache were 
concerned, the chief artist being the Countess of Canna- 
zaro's coot. This worthy man, excellent no doubt as 
a chef, took it into his head that he was a vocalist of 
the highest order, and that he only wanted oppor- 
tunity to earn musical distinction. His strange fancy 
came to the knowledge of Kubini, and it was arranged 
that a performance should take place in the morn- 
ing, in which the cook's talent should be fairly tested. 
Certainly every chance was afforded him. Not only was 
he encouraged by Eubini and Lablache (whose gravity 
on the occasion was wonderful), but he was accompanied 
by these artists, and by a few others, Costa included, 
as instrumentalists. The failure was miserable, ridicu- 
lous, as everybody had expected. I have had my 
experience that a neglected genius seldom turns out 
to be worth much, and the musical cook was no excep- 
tion to the general rule. 

A new tenor, named Corelli, and a fresh bass were 
announced, the last by the name of Felice. Moriani, 
one of the best reputed tenors in Italy at the time, 
especially as a fine dramatic artist, was destined to be 
one of the celebrities of the season, although his name 
did not originally appear, on the programme. The 
ballet, meanwhile, still continued to enjoy the supremacy 
it had acquired; Fanny Ellsler, the great dramatic 
danseuse, par excellence, was to be restored to the sub- 
scribers. Then there were Carlotta Grisi, sparkling 
and lively ; Cerito so buoyant and so capricious ; Guy 
Stephan, always a favourite ; and a new danseuse, 
Adelaide Frassi (about whom some expectation was 
raised), with a train of minor stars. Strenuous efforts, 



OPENING OF 1844. 83 

it will be seerij had been made to support the ancient 
prestige of Her Majesty's Theatre in the ballet depart- 
ment. Male dancers, not yet looked down upon as 
troublesome and obtrusive accessories, and in truth 
generally necessary to support the danseuse in many of 
her most striking pas, were hailed with considerable 
satisfaction, bearing, as they did, the names of Perrot 
and St. Leon. Indeed, if any genuine lovers of the 
ballet, in a really artistic point of view, are still left in 
England, they must surely look back with envy and 
regret to the palmy days of 1844 and 1845. 

The season was announced to open with Herold's 
opera of " Zampa," arranged for the Italian stage, with 
Fornasari in the principal character. This promised 
work was not destined, however, to be produced on the 
opening night. A violent quarrel had taken place be- 
tween the robust singer and the manager of the Italian 
Opera in Paris. Not only angry words, but blows (it 
was alleged), had been interchanged, and Fornasari was 
obliged to remain in Paris to abide the issue of the 
court of law called in to decide upon the fray. I 
hastened to the French capital, to see whether, with a 
little address, I could not rescue my promised hero 
from the consequences of his impetuosity, 

To a considerable degree I succeeded in smoothing 
down the stormy waves of strife, but found it impossible 
to withdraw Fornasari from his disagreeable position in 
time to appear on the opening night of the London season. 

It is scarcely too much to say that the whole affair 
had a fatal result. When Fornasari arrived in London 
he was too ill to sing. The occurrences in Paris had a 
serious effect upon his health. He had become so hag- 
gard and sallow as to be scarcely recognisable ; whilst 



84 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

his voice was materially affected. From this depression, 
the effects of which were sensible during the rest of the 
season, he never completely recovered. He retired from 
the stage about a year later, and (whatever may have 
been the cause of his death) did not live long afterwards. 

The only substitute to be found for the announced 
opera was Donizetti's unfortunate " Adelia," which, as I 
have recorded, had not been successful on its production 
during the previous year. When revived for the 
opening of the season, on the 9th of March 1844, it 
was supported again by Madame Persiani ; Corelli, the 
new tenor, appearing in the part originally sustained by 
Conti. Persiani, though now somewhat on the wane, 
was one of the favourites of the day. Corelli was 
generally pronounced a pleasant tenor, fitted for the 
Nemorinos of the stage, and so far an acquisition. But 
"Adeha," although "backed up" by one of the most 
successful choreographic displays ever witnessed on the 
boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, would not, could not 
attract. It lingered on for a few nights, when it was 
deemed advisable to bring out the promised opera of 
"Zampa," even without Fornasari. Felice, the new 
basso, was hastily called upon to take the weight of the 
opera upon his shoulders, and " Zampa " was produced 
on the 19th of March. Whether he had been too much 
hurried in the study of his music, or whether he lacked 
capacity for his task, poor Felice completely broke 
down. Fever was failure more complete. The public 
was not even able to arrive, under the circumstances, at 
any judgment of the music, and "Zampa" was neces- 
sarily withdrawn after only one night's performance. 

In the meanwhile the other great promise of the 
opening night had been excellently fulfilled. " Esmer- 



" ESMERALDA." 85 

alda," brought out at the appointed time, was re- 
ceived with enthusiasm. All had been done that was 
possible, in the way of scenery and decorations, to give 
eclat to this choreographic version of Victor Hugo's 
romance. Perrot had adapted the story for ballet pur- 
poses with peculiar skill. Carlotta Grisi, as the heroine, 
showed that she had gained greatly in the mimic art, and 
acted as well as danced her difficult part to perfection. 

The Gringoire of Perrot long remained one of the 
striking traditions of the ballet. St. Leon, and Frassi 
the new danseuse, strengthened the cast. " Esmeralda," 
one of the last as it was one of the best of the greater 
dramatic ballets produced upon the Anglo-Italian boards, 
created perhaps the greatest " sensation " during the 
season of 1844. 

Before dismissing this famous ballet, I may mention that 
I myself originally proposed the subject to Perrot, who at 
first rejected it as impracticable. Eventually, however, 
Perrot altered his opinion, and I frequently sat up with 
him the greater part of the night, in order to assist and 
encourage him in his labours. Pugni was brought over 
from Paris for the purpose of composing the music, 
and was always present ready to seize any idea that 
might suggest itself for a " situation " or pas. At this 
time he was comparatively unknown, but he subsequently 
composed the music to the principal ballets at Her 
Majesty's Theatre. For this style of composition his 
talents seem to have been peculiarly fitted. He has 
been since, however, attached to the service of the Em- 
peror of Russia, expressly for the purpose of composing 
the military music for the Russian army, and in a sphere 
thus singularly different, he is reported to have been 
equally successful. 



86 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

So far, in spite of the difficulties and drawbacks at- 
tendant upon operatic productions at this period of the 
year, the season may have been said to have opened 
creditably. 

The next event, anticipated with considerable anxiety 
and some degree of excitement, was the debut of 
Signora Favanti, the new English aspirant for fame on 
the Italian stage. With the great expectations raised, 
it was not surprising that, on Saturday the 23rd of 
March, the theatre was crammed to overflowing. Glow- 
ing accounts of the quality of the young singer's voice, 
of her style, of her dramatic power, of her personal beauty, 
were everywhere current. Public expectations were not 
disappointed. Like that of Forndsari, her debut was one 
long scene of triumph. The habitues, with but a few 
exceptions, revelled in enthusiastic laudations of her 
wonderful powers, and in their hyperbolic phrases, 
Malibran, compared with the new operatic star, was " a 
kitchen wench," Pasta " a dowdy." Among the very 
few dissentients to this verdict was one newspaper, 
which remarked that " Miss Edwards has yet to become 
a scholar. It would be kinder to give the lady a chance 
of permanent success by persuading her to retire to a 
course of earnest vocal and musical study. Without 
some such measure, Miss Edwards has nothing before 
her but professional mortification." This paper, how- 
ever harshly its judgment may have been expressed, 
spoke, in this instance, the truth. Mademoiselle Favanti, 
in spite of her illustrious Italian certificates, was soon 
compelled to descend from the throne to which a mis- 
placed enthusiasm had raised her. 

It is however but fair to state that the success of 
Mademoiselle Favanti in the " Cenerentola " was gene- 



^i ri ililfDk " 



ZAMPA." 87 

rally admitted, and that she was not only a favourite 
with the general pubhc, but a benefit to the treasury. 
A " dead set," however, was made against her by 
various artists and their partisans ; and as she was of a 
nervous and susceptible temperament, her health suf- 
fered in consequence. Until the principal singers 
could be obtained from Paris, the repertoire was 
strengthened by the " Elisir," with Madame Persian! as 
the heroine. 

The after-season, which commenced on the 9th of 
April, brought the expected troupe, and Grisi, Mario, 
Lablache, and Fornasari appeared in the "Puritani." 
"Don Pasquale" followed, with the substitution of Corelli 
in the place of Mario, already on the sick list, and 
afforded that pleasant tenor the opportunity of winning 
his spurs gallantly in one of Mario's own parts. Made- 
moiselle Favanti gave her "non piu mesta" in an 
episodical interlude ; but though still received with ap- 
plause, she now began to meet with a growing opposi- 
tion; and when afterwards she played Arsace in " Semi- 
ramide,'' even her most enthusiastic admirers began 
gently to hint at shortcomings, and to reverence her 
with " faint praise ;" whilst the more rigid judges an- 
nounced the second trial a hopeless failure. In "Norma" 
as Adelgisa, in " Don Giovanni " as Elvira, and a little 
later in the " Matrimonio Segreto," she had further op- 
portunities of supporting her somewhat prematurely 
acquired reputation ; but little by little the original en- 
thusiasm gradually declined, and the brief favourite of 
the day passed into obscurity. 

Cerito, meanwhile, had been presiding, vice Carlotta 
Grisi, who had departed, over the great choreographic 
banquet of the season, and on the 9th of May the opera 



88 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of " Zampa " was reproduced, for the benefit of For- 
nasari, that singer taking the part for which he had 
been originally intended, with a " cast " strengthened by 
Lablache in the comic part of Dandolo. A few special 
words must be given to this occasion. 

Already Fornasari had ceased to hold the supreme 
position which had been hastily and generally granted him 
during the previous season^ and though he was still 
enthusiastically received by the general public, a few 
" carpings and cavillings " began to be heard.- Doubts 
timorously indeed were whispered here and there, and 
it became gradually evident that Fornasari was not 
exactly the "conquering hero" which previous trumpet- 
ings had so loudly proclaimed him. In spite of his 
efforts on this occasion, backed by the advantage of La- 
blache's name and the singing of Persiani, in spite 
of the catching melodies, the vigorous chorusses and 
the dramatic style of Herold, " Zampa " failed in es- 
tablishing itself upon the Anglo-Italian boards. After 
a very few nights, on which it was lustily applauded, it 
wholly disappeared from the bills. However, in behalf 
of the fame of Herold, it should be mentioned 
that a considerable portion of the frequenters of Her 
Majesty's Theatre only admitted at this period, as accept- 
able on its boards, the Italian school, pur et simple, and 
looked with coldness and mistrust on any names, how's 
ever accredited, which revealed a French, a German,, 
or, still worse, an English origin. Thus Herold can in 
fact scarcely be said to have had " fair play " at Hef 
Majesty's Theatre. 

The chances of French opera having become more 
than questionable, the established favourites of the 
accustomed repertoire ran on their usual triumphant 



(( 



DON CARLOS." 89 



course. ''Don Giovanni," "II Matrimonio Segreto," 
" II Barbiere di Siviglia," " Semiramide," " Lucia di 
Lammermoor," "Lucrezia Borgia," " Otello," " Anna 
Bolena," "Don Pasquale," "I Puritani," with one 
incidental performance of " La Prova d'una Opera Seria," 
for a benefit, occupied the stage almost exclusively: 
afibrding scope for the talents of Grisi, Persiani, Mario, 
and Lablache, who were always welcome in their familiar 
rdles, and still drew applauding crowds, unwearied by 
repetition. 

Amid this cluster of established repertoire operas, two 
novelties endeavoured to raise their heads during the 
season, but both failed to attain a permanent position. 
Signor Costa's " Don Carlos " was produced for the 
eminent conductor's own benefit, on the 20th June. It 
had been long talked of, long expected, and the musical 
dilettanti of the day were naturally excited by curiosity 
as to the result of its production. The " Malek Adel " 
of the same composer, although when it was brought out 
it attained a certain kind of celebrity (chiefly from the 
renown of a cavatina sung by Eubini), and was even 
repeated upon the Italian stage in Paris, had long since 
disappeared from the boards. Nevertheless considerable 
expectations were still afloat. 

" Don Carlos " was well " mounted," and supported 
by Grisi, Mario, Lablache, and Fornasari. Like its 
predecessor, it utterly failed to maintain any prominence. 
It survived but a very few nights, and then, like 
"Malek Adel," sank into the vast "limbo" of for* 
gotten works. 

Whatever may have been the real merit of this pro- 
duction, from a managerial point of view it was unde- 
niably a failure. That is to say, it neither attracted 



90 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the public nor brought money to the treasury. It is by 
such tests alone that an operatic or a theatrical direc- 
tor can discover what is and is not conducive to the 
interest of an establishment. The subject of " Don 
Carlos," it may be stated, was "sombre" and lugu- 
brious, and on the first night, Mario and Lablache 
were both hoarse, wearied by long rehearsals. This 
could not be otherwise than detrimental to " first 
impressions," but the artists gallantly supported their 
conductor's fame on the second night of performance. 

It is extraordinary that Costa should have failed 
where it was natural to conclude his experience would 
have made him absolute master, namely, in the adapta- 
tion of his music to the singers' voices. The artists all 
complained (in an undertone, of course), that the 
Tessitura was too high for them, and that if the manage- 
ment continued to give Signor Costa's opera, injury 
to their voices would be the inevitable consequence. 
One great singer (an especial friend of the composer) 
urged this point strongly on the director, at the same 
time expressing surprise that Costa, who had had so 
much knowledge of the voices of the company, should 
compose for them a travers. But for these energetic 
remonstrances the opera might have been given oftener, 
notwithstanding the serious loss it entailed upon the 
treasury. For I felt how deeply Signor Costa was in- 
terested in its success, and, as a matter both of good-will 
and policy, I was desirous of pleasing my conductor. 
Combined, however, with the private complaints of the 
artists, were the expostulations of the subscribers, and 
in spite of personal inclinations I was obliged to with- 
draw the opera. The composer, as he could not suspect 
the artists, and was slow to believe in the dissatisfaction 



" FAILURE OF DON CARLOS." 91 

of the subscribers, consequently threw all the blame on 
the management ; and although I had laboured hard to 
procure an opposite result, he ascribed to me the com- 
parative failure of his opera. This incident is one among 
many that tend to show the wisdom of the law laid 
down at the Grand Opera of Paris, peremptorily for- 
bidding the production of any composition either of the 
chef d'orchestre or the director of the music. 

The other novelty was Eicci's *'Corrado d'Altamura," 
which was supported by Grisi, Mario, and Fornasari. 
This opera had been one of the items of the original 
programme of the season, but although it had been 
produced at almost every continental theatre, even out 
of Italy, it never was calculated to make a favourable 
impression on the London boards. It made its appear- 
ance towards the close of the season, but even had it 
been brought forward at a more auspicious date, it is 
questionable whether it could ever have maintained its 
ground. A heavy opera, based upon a dull libretto, had 
little chances in its favour with an excitement- 
seeking London audience, and " Corrado d'Altamura " 
was only performed on one single night. 

The " Fantasma " of Signor Persiani, the husband of 
the celebrated cantatrice, had been also announced as 
one of the novelties of the season. But as the wits of the 
day had it, "Lumley gave up the ghost," — very wisely, 
too, I may be permitted to add, since this opera brought 
with it no very favourable report from Paris. The 
reason of the original selection in this case will be obvious. 

The prestige of the ballet, on the other hand, was 
maintained by Cerito in Ondine, and Alma, by the 
inimitable Fanny EUsler, in " Le Delire d'un Peintre," 
and " La Paysanne Grande Dame," — by both, in the 



92 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

divertissement, " Un Bal sous Louis XI V./' in which Ells- 
ler was the Chevalier of the Minuet, while Cerito was the 
lady. In the ballet of " Esmeralda " Fanny EUsler was 
able to display her immense histrionic talent. Carlotta 
Grisi had gained therein the earliest laurels, but the 
great pantomimist was able to freshen them into new 
lustre. A mythological ballet, composed by Perrot, 
elaborate in detail, and produced with great care and 
expense, under the title of " Zelie," proved a failure, in 
spite of all the popularity of Cerito, for whom it was 
composed, for it was now that people began to murmur 
at the " bore " of applying their mind and attention to 
the comprehension of a plot expressed in action. It was 
an early symptom of the decadence of the ballet-panto- 
mime ; and the change of feeling, there is no doubt, 
contributed, along with some other circumstances hardly 
worth noticing, to the failure of the costly ballet of 
" Zelie." 

Before closing this rapid sketch of the principal pro- 
ductions of the season of 1844, there is yet an operatic 
event to be recorded, viz., the first appearance in 
England of the celebrated Italian tenor, Moriani, whose 
engagement had not been promised, but was thrown 
over and above into the already full lap of the sub- 
scribers. 

The success of Moriani was indubitable ; equally in- 
dubitable were the rich results of his engagement to the 
treasury ; equally indubitable the value of the demon- 
strations of enthusiasm elicited by his performances. 
Nevertheless, the attitude of the press was singular. 
Along with the more general and unqualified praise of 
this celebrated singer, came partial condemnations, un- 
qualified also. Was la vieille garde at work again ? 



THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA. 93 

Certainly, with all Moriani's unquestionable great- 
ness, there was a something which opened a field 
for discussion as to his merits. His fine voice was 
confessedly a little worn and unequal This in itself was 
quite enough for connoisseurs. Then florid execution 
was not his forte in singing, and therefore he could not 
please the one-sided admirers of the florid style. He 
was, however, beyond dispute, a great lyrical, dramatic 
artist. His Gennaro consequently, was superior, as 
affording greater scope for passion and feeling, to his 
Percy in " Anna Bolena," in which his powers as an 
actor could not be developed, perhaps even to his Ed- 
gardo, notwithstanding the opportunities afforded in the 
two finales. 

The idolatrous admiration for Mario entertained by 
many persons at this time, doubtless influenced their 
judgment of Moriani; but I should state that, two or three 
years later, Moriani's success waned in Italy. This cir- 
cumstance after all justifies, in some measure, the partial 
hesitation of the English critics. 

One of the chief public events of the London season 
was the visit of Her Majesty to the opera, accompanied 
by the late Emperor of the Kussias and the King of 
Saxony. I may now confess that the pleasure derived 
from the honour of this visit was somewhat mitigated 
by apprehension as to its possible consequences. The Em- 
peror Nicholas was known to be an object of almost 
fanatical hatred to the Polish refugees who find their home 
in London, and an attempt at assassination was certainly 
an event probable enough to justify strong precaution- 
ary measures. Special care was taken to ascertain who 
was likely to occupy the boxes opposite to the Eoyal 
one, and a sort of surveillance was exercised generally. 



94 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

The vigilance of Mr. (now Sir Eichard) Mayne was also 
called into requisition. 

As the illustrious party entered the house a certain 
trepidation was observed among the suite of the 
Emperor; but none whatever in himself. He stood 
firm and erect. Only when cheered after the perform- 
ance of the Kussian Hymn, which was played by the 
band, after the English National Anthem had been 
sung, he retired to the back of the box, as if yielding 
all the homage to the Queen. The opera was the 
" Barbiere." The Emperor was delighted with Lablache, 
laughing heartily at his drolleries, especially when this 
" spoiled child " of the public introduced his English or 
made allusions to the Eoyal visit ; and I was requested 
to convey to Lablache the Emperor's satisfaction with 
his performance. Shortly afterwards overtures were 
made to the great artist for a season at St. Petersburg, 
which, after some hesitation, he accepted. It has been 
remarked that on state occasions it is always judicious 
to select an opera huffa. Such an opera is a contrast 
to the stateliness of the Court, whilst the lugubriousness 
of a tragic opera, heightened by the seriousness of the 
audience, adds to the monotonous effect of a picture 
already too cold and dignified. 

Altogether the evening, with respect to which there 
had been some well-grounded apprehension, passed off 
exceedingly well, the applause bestowed on the Rus- 
sian festival hymn being scarcely less than that which 
accompanied " God save the Queen." Indeed, few 
who witnessed the reception of the Imperial guest could 
have foreseen the Crimean war that was to occur a few 
years afterwards, although his visit to England was not 
wholly unconnected with the " Sick Man." 



ATTEMPTS AT DISTURBANCES. 95 

Another event of less public importance, but serious 
enough to cause me some uneasiness, occurred in the 
course of the season. One evening, to my utter amaze- 
ment, bills were distributed and showered down upon 
the pit and stage from the upper boxes, demanding the 
engagement of the tenor Salvi (as yet unknown in 
England), and threatening the management with another 
"Tamburini Eow," if prompt compliance with this 
demand were not given. The origin of this effort was 
never sufficiently clear to the public. Two of the bill 
distributors were prosecuted, and it was argued in their 
behalf that the illustrious noblemen and gentlemen of the 
other disgraceful disturbance were never cited before the 
police court for their misdeeds. Ultimately the affair was 
settled by a written apology, and by the payment of a 
fine of £50 to various hospitals by the disturbers of 
public order. Still it was evident that the sufferers were 
but agents of a mysterious influence, never discovered. 

Another little event was the violent hissing of St. 
L6on, the popular dancer, by the occupants of an omni- 
bus box. Some disturbance followed this demonstration, 
the public taking the part of the performer. Letters 
in the public papers ensued ; the clique of noble sub- 
scribers asserting that M. St. Leon had made use of 
" insulting gestures " towards them, and maintaining 
their right to express disapprobation whenever they 
pleased, whilst the dancer emphatically denied any 
intention of insult, or any mark of disrespect. The 
public and the press ranged themselves on the side of 
the artist. " Nemo Omnibus horis sapit " was a 
quotation once more flung at the heads of the disturbers 
of order. A public apology, however, was offered in 
the " Times " by the dancer to the Duke of Beaufort. 



96 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

The fracas was allowed to subside, although a general 
impression prevailed that the real rights of the case had 
never been clearly established. 

It seems probable that St. Leon, who was then 
paying his addresses to Cerito (afterwards Madame St. 
Leon), fancied that some demonstrations of partiality 
(but demonstrations only) had been shewn to the object 
of his devotions by one of the noble occupants of the 
omnibus box, and that his jealousy was aroused. Cer- 
tainly had the question, " Dove la Femina ? " been put 
at any judicial investigation of the matter, as was the 
wont of the well-known Sicilian magistrate, every one 
acquainted with the gossip of the coulisses would have 
pointed to this fascinating danseuse. 

It must not be supposed, however, because the gene- 
ral smoothness of the surface was preserved to public 
eye, that there were no quicksands beneath. Difficulties 
would arise with the great prima donna of the day about 
her roles, and objections would be made about measures 
which she considered wounding to her amour propre. 
Danseuses persisted in objecting to their boxes, or their 
costumes, or alleged the scanty space of their dressing- 
rooms. Indeed, in the ballet department, a spirit of in- 
subordination (which, however, was met by proper and 
immediate resistance on the part of the management) 
assumed at one time a somewhat dangerous form. One 
of the results of the director's resistance to these intestine 
tumults was the cancelling of the engagements of Made- 
moiselles Plunkett and Scheffer. In spite of the pro- 
tecting influence thrown around the young ladies, I was 
resolved to display the firmness essential to my posi- 
tion ; considering that whatever loss the public might 
sustain, the relaxation of discipline would involve a loss 
to the management far more serious. 



MUSIC AND FLOWERS. 97 

More annoyances constantly arose from the repeated 
exigencies and hindrances of subscribers in " high 
places." These drawbacks are perhaps inevitable to a 
certain degree in the constitution of an establishment' 
like that of Her Majesty's Theatre. But requisitions for 
changes of performances, only too often conflicting in 
their nature, and demands for, or objections to, engage- 
ments, just as conflicting, throw serious obstacles in the 
way of an administration — all the more serious as 
the treatment they require demands the constant exer- 
tion of delicacy and tact in order to confront such 
difficulties. In spite of all, however, the direction still 
pursued its course with growing prosperity, and with 
fresh advantages at once artistic and pecuniary. 

During the short sojourn of the Emperor Nicholas in 
England, the veteran diplomatist. Count Nesselrode, 
by whom he was acpompanied, was on one occasion my 
guest. I took the liberty of asking the Count the 
secret of his prolonged youth, when he replied, " Music 
and flowers." This anecdote may serve (as far as it 
goes) to confirm an observation which has been made 
to the efiect, that long-lived diplomatists have generally 
cultivated a love for music. The present distinguished 
ambassador of Eussia at the British Court (who accom- 
panied the Eussian chancellor on the visit referred to) 
is himself an enlightened connoisseur of the art. The 
late Prince Metternich is another very notable example. 
The late Duke of Wellington was one of the most con- 
stant supporters of the opera. Prince Paul Esterhazy, 
Count Eechberg, Lord Westmoreland, and others might 
also be enumerated. 

Music and flowers! Delicious sounds and bright 
colours. I hope I shall be pardoned the digression when 

H 



98 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

I state, that I know a person with whom music and 
colours are so intimately associated, that whenever this per- 
son listens to a singer, a colour corresponding to his voice 
becomes visible to the eyes. The greater the volume of 
the voice the more distinct is the colour, and when 
the voice is good, the high and low notes are of the 
same colour ; whereas if different colours appear during 
the performance of the same singer, the voice is natu- 
rally unpleasant or has been forced out of its natural 
register. 

To show that my gifted friend is not content with 
maintaining a mere theory, I give a list of celebrated 
singers, with the colours which, it is asserted, correspond 
to their voices : — 

GriuGLiNi. — ^Maroon. The colour softened and well blended in 
its gradations. Substance, a rich velvet pile. 

Maeio. — ^A beautiful violet, more like satin than velvet. 

Tambeelik. — ^A carmine ; but unequal — on some notes the 
colour very strong, and on some notes scarcely any colour. The 
voice like a cannon when fired ; a flash succeeded by haziness, but 
the flash very brilliant whilst it lasts. 

Sims Reeves. — ^A golden brown, something like a shot-silk. 

Beletti. — Somewhat of crimson lake, mixed with indigo. Equal, 
but the two colours always mixed. 

GrAEDONi. — A watery sun, with a dark cloud before it. 

Geaziani. — ^An Indian red, tinged with a beautiful golden 
brown — a magnificent colour. Substance, a rich velvet pile. 

Alboni. — A blue (cobalt). Voice like so many raised lines 
or divisions, mechanically and formally correct. Latterly, some of 
the notes with colour less bright. 

Geisi. — (Latter times) — ^Varies greatly — primrose, and some- 
times changes to blue. Mem. — The colours change when the voice 
is not equal. 

PiCCOLOMiNi. — PetiUant. Many sparkling emanations as when 
gunpowder is thrown on fire ; some portions of the voice little 
colour, but those that have colour very brilliant and pleasing. 



SOUND AND COLOUR. 99 

Patti. — ^Light and dark drab, with occasional touches of coral. 

Bosio. — A very beautiful moss rose colour, with a diamond-like 
transparency. 

Teebelxi. — ^Prussian blue, a strong ordinary colour — equal. 

BoEGHi-MAMO. — Scarlet and black. Some nights the voice being 
one colour, sometimes another, and occasionally both — made her 
performances differ, sometimes producing considerable effect, and 
sometimes but little. The middle voice is a good colour — ^the high 
and low an unpleasant one. They are probably not natural, but 
the result of force. 

Pauline Viardot. — At least half-dozen colours — one or two 
like a silk shot, the shots at moments very pretty, at other times 
very disagreeable. 

Claea Novello. — Tomata ; always the same, but a cold 
glaring colour. 

TrriENS. — Red in some, and a pink in other parts of the voice. 
Latterly the colours faded in some of the notes. 

Louisa Ptne. — ^Pale sky-blue ; very pretty and delicate, but a 
little faded. 

MiOLAN Caevalho. — A French lilac ; very pretty. 

Battu. — Yellow and white — two distinct colours. Sometimes 
the white is beautiful and pure, whilst the yellow is not good ; but 
sometimes the two colours blend, and form (in idea) a daisy, which 
is really pretty — ^like whipped cream with little bits of dark spice 
in it. 

Pbnco. — Some notes yellow, like a beautiful canary colour ; but 
some notes are like yellow ochre — a vulgar yellow. The voice is 
unequal. 

AxDiGHiEEi. — Warm (reddish) violet colour. 

Caklotta Marchesio. — A bronz auricola. 

Baebara Maechesio. — Carnation. 

This faculty of perceiving colours while listening to 
music, though it sometimes increases the pleasure of the 
listener, may also be a source of pain. I do not mention 
names, but the person bears witness to the existence of 
voices that have caused an appearance of the colours of 
snails, stale beer, sour milk, curry powder, rhubarb, mud 

h2 



100 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

splashes, and tea leaves from which the water has been 
strained. 

Some may smile at the above, as the mere creation of 
an idle fancy ; but I am inclined to regard the associa- 
tion between sound and colour as a proven fact, worthy 
of scientific investigation, and perhaps in another work 
I may descant more amply on the subject. 



101 



CHAPTER X. 

Prospects of 1845 — ^The .Singers proyided of a high class — Dancers 
equally eminent — Theatre opens with "Ernani" — Doubtful 
appreciation of Verdi's Music in England^-His claims to approval 
set forth — DiiEculty of engrafting a new style upon English 
taste — ^Examples — ^Debut of Lucille Grahn — First appearance of 
Madame Castellan — ^The "Viennoisea" — History of their engage- 
ment—Obstacles thrown in the way by the Austrian Government — 
Real grounds of objection disclosed — The BaUet in high favour 
— ^Taglioni once more appears in "La Sylphide" — ^The "Pas de 
Quatre" devised — Dilemma, arising from unwiUingness to com- 
mence on the part of each Danseuse — How solved by Director — 
Fame of the Pas de Quatre. 

The season of 1845, though, on the whole, prosperous, 
was not entirely exempt from vexations and troubles. 
Nevertheless it leaves a memory fraught with stirring 
interest and striking incident. Earely, perhaps, had so 
much novelty — operatic and choreographic — been cro wded 
into the space of one year. In many respects this 
season forms one of the most brilliant and notable periods 
of my management, and the task of giving a clear his- 
torical summary of the multifarious incidents which fol- 
lowed close upon one another, offers perhaps more diffi- 
culties than any other portion of my theatrical course. 

The programme of the artists engaged for the season 
of 1845 was in itself full of novelty and interest. 
Grisi, as usual, headed the list, as the ;^ima donna 



102 KEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

assoluta supreme, and though the name of Madame Per- 
sian! was not in the catalogue of engagements, three new 
cantatrici were oifered for approval to the subscribers of 
Her Majesty's Theatre — Mesdames Eita Borio, Eossi 
Caccia, and Castellan — all names of note and promise. 
Eubini still held coyly back in his retirement; but 
Mario and Moriani, Lablache and Fornasari, were all 
forthcoming. Two new baritones were announced — 
Monsieur Baroilhet, the popular artist of the Academic 
Eoyale in Paris, and Signor Botelli. 

The ballet list was also agreeably varied. Taglioni — 
the Taglioni, who, for the last two seasons, had hesitated, 
wavered, and finally rejected the offers made to her — 
had at last consented to renew her course of triumphs 
upon the boards of the London Opera House. Carlotti 
Grisi and Cerito were once more to appear in tantalising 
rivalry. Fanny EUsler was indeed absent, and could 
not be added to this splendid list ; but a new danseuse, 
Mademoiselle Lucille Grahn, a young Danish artist, who 
had achieved the greatest success on many of the conti- 
nental theatres, was to contribute to the brilliant galaxy. 
Perrot and St. Leon, the two most popular and accom- 
plished male dancers of the timfe, closed the " bill of 
fare." 

The season was announced to open with the " Ernani" 
of Verdi, a composer as yet unknown to the mass of the 
musical English public. But he had been crowned 
triumphantly, and had achieved the most signal successes 
in Italy. " Ernani " was generally pronounced, at that 
period, one of the best, if not the best, of his many 
applauded operas. It would have been strange if the 
announcement of the first production of one of Verdi's 
works upon the Anglo-Italian stage had failed to excite 



ii 



ERNANI." 103 



the attention and interest of the musical world. At all 
events it was the duty, as well as the policy of the 
management, to bring forward the greatest novelty of 
the day — ^novelty sure to be called for with indignant 
remonstrance if not laid before the subscribers, however 
it might be scouted (according to custom) when it did 
make its appearance, A troop of wonderful children, 
who had excited an unusual sensation at the Grand 
Opera of Paris, under the name of the Danseuses 
Viennoises (of whom much wiU be said hereafter), were 
expected also on the first night, but extraordinary 
hindrances, of a character yet to be described, had 
frustrated this intention. 

After some unavoidable delay, the season opened on 
Saturday the 8th March, with the promised opera of 
"Ernani." That it excited the general enthusiasm 
awarded to it so lavishly in Italy, cannot be asserted; that 
it was a failure, may be emphatically denied. The general 
result of this first introduction of Verdi to the English 
public was a feeling of hesitation and doubt; or as some 
one droUy said at the time, the "Well! I don't know's" 
had it ! The English are tardy in the appreciation of 
any kind of novelty, and the reception of Verdi's opera 
was only in accordance with the national habit. It is 
well-known that a taste for this composer's music has 
survived all the opposition of an earlier period, and that 
he is now generally popular among the musical amateurs 
in this country. Whatever their intrinsic merits, his 
operas have achieved a widely-spread success, as pro- 
vincial theatres and music halls can testify throughout 
the land ; and there can be no doubt that whatever his 
alleged short-comings in some respects, he has at com- 
mand passion, fire, and strong dramatic effect. 



104 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

It may not be prudent in this case to apply the great 
dictum of Rossini, who, when his " Gazza Ladra " was 
severely criticised, and he was accused of violating the 
rules of musical grammar, retorted on his adversaries, 
" Well, then, reform your grammar, for it must be that 
which is defective." But results are matter of fact, 
and although it may not be accepted as a moral axiom 
that " what is pleasing must-be good," popular opinion 
among the masses chooses to accept the dictum as true 
in regard to music. 

On the first production, then, of " Ernani," the public 
seemed as yet unprepared to give a verdict of its own 
on the merits of the young composer, now first placed 
in England on his trial. 

As I have said before, there are still old dilettanti 
who can remember the general condemnation of Eossini^ 
" that hand-organ tune-maker !" when compared with 
Cimarosa, Pergolese, &c., and how his "■ Barbiere," 
which has since stood the test of years, was scouted 
as washy, weak, and frivolous. Then came Bellini's 
turn. " Le petit maitre " was made to shrink into 
obscurity when compared with the "G-ran Maestro" 
Rossini. As for Donizetti, he was denounced as a feeble 
plagiarist of the now admired Bellini. Now it was Verdi's 
turn to meet the usual fate, as g, poor, worthless 
copyist of Donizetti, " so stirring and dramatic." Has 
real music, then, actually sunk through all these degrees 
of diminuendo to so very low a standard ? Or does it 
not rather appear, on the face of these notorious facts, 
that a spirit of opposition to all novelty, and an asser- 
tion of excellence existing only in the past, is one of the 
great characteristics of English judgment on matters of 



FELICTEN DAVID. 105 

art, and that on this field, at all events, " conserva- 
tism " is the rallying cry of the country ? 

It cannot be said that " Ernani " contributed in any 
marked degree to the financial prosperity of the year. 
Madame Rita Borio, who made her first appearance in 
this opera, achieved a certain amount of success, " with 
modifications." The new baritone, Botelli, was sum- 
marily dispatched with "faint praise." Moriani and 
Fornasari, the popular favourites of previous seasons, 
were not allowed to gather fresh laurels in the new 
opera without considerable resistance. " Ernani," how- 
ever, ran on, with its moderate degree of success, for 
several nights during the ante-Easter season, to be 
followed by "Le Desert " of Felicien David, which was 
given as a " musical fite " on the boards of Her 
Majesty's Theatre. This " Grand Symphonic Pastoral 
Ode" (as it was denominated) met with a larger amount 
of "fair play" than the opera of Verdi, was very generally 
treated as an " extraordinary production" (not always in 
the best sense of the term), and was both applauded and 
to a great extent appreciated. As an " extra " enter- 
tainment, indeed, it was repeated several times. 

Felicien David's odd composition, though rather more 
than a nine days' wonder, was but the wonder of a 
season. None of his subsequent works have attained an 
equal degree of celebrity ; and it is recorded of a cele- 
brated composer, who in society is scarcely less cele- 
brated as a wit, that when asked his opinion respecting 
one of David's late productions, he drily remarked, " II 
est descendu de son chameau." An explanation often 
spoils as much as it elucidates a joke, but for the benefit 
of my younger readers I must take the liberty of 
stating that the subject of " Le Desert " is the journey 



106 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

through the desert of a caravan, in which of course 
the camel plays an important part. 

Another composer was far more severely treated by 
the same musical wit, who was one day found in the act 
of reading a score turned upside down. '■' What are you 
doing, Maestro ?" asked the friend, who had discovered 
him thus strangely employed — '' you have got the music 
the wrong way !" " True," replied the Maestro, " but 

as I can make nothing of 's music with the right 

side upwards, I am trying to solve its difficulties by 
looking at it topsy-turvy !" 

The opening night of the season of 1845 was better sig- 
nalizedby the debutoi the promised danseuse. Mademoiselle 
Lucille Grahn, in an entirely new ballet, called " Eoline." 
This baUet, which, although somewhat fantastic, was com- 
pletely intelligible, and had been superbly "mounted," 
was a decided success; not only was Mademoiselle Grahn 
received with enthusiasm, but critics declared that she 
combined the " ideal " school of Taglioni with the 
" realistic " school of Cerito, and the sprightliness of 
Carlotti Grisi, adding something of the pantomimic art of 
Fanny EUsler. The "Mazurka d'Extase " (another 
"Pas de Fascination"), in which Perrot endeavoured to 
display his most ingenious powers of choreographic inven- 
tion, was considered a chef-d'oeuvre, as danced by him- 
self and Lucille Grahn. The new danseuse, then, was 
accepted as an emule worthy to figure by the side of the 
three other illustrious artists in the coming great " sen- 
sation" of the season; and "Eoline" maintained its 
attraction firmly in the " annonces." 

Tuesday the 1st April introduced Madame Castellan 
as Lucia in "Lucia di Lammermoor." The debutante 
was warmly welcomed, as one likely to soothe the regrets 



" DANSEUSES VIENNOISES." 107 

of the public for tlie loss of Persiani, and to become her 
legitimate successor ; and for a long period she main- 
tained her prestige upon the London stage. Her per- 
formance in the " Sonnambula," in which she was now 
seconded by Mario, decided her unequivocal success. 

On Saturday the 8th April, Grisi resumed her sceptre, 
and with it her sway over English audiences, in 
"Norma." But important as the event of her reap- 
pearance for the season may have been considered from 
an operatic point of view, the excitement for the nonce 
was unquestionably caused by the first performance of 
the " Danseuses Viennoises." The strange story con- 
nected with their first appearance — the records of the 
doubts, difficulties, and diplomatic discussions which had 
been going on up to this period, and the curiosity of the 
public, excited by the various rumours afloat, form a 
remarkable episode in my narrative. 

This troop of "Little Fairies," as they were termed, 
numbering thirty-six little girls, had been collected 
in the city of Vienna by Madame Weiss, a dancing 
mistress. So completely had they been taught, drilled, 
and manoeuvred into a juvenile " corps de ballet," 
that they executed a great variety of dances with 
a degree of precision, agility, and spirit, which caused 
their performance to be regarded as little less than 
marvellous. In their native city their extraordinary 
attraction had completely re-established the more than 
precarious fortunes of the Josephstadt Theater. A 
journey throughout many parts of Germany, undertaken 
without hindrance, had completed their success. 

Their fame had reached Monsieur Fillet, then Directeur 
of the Grand Opera in Faris. They had been there 
engaged without the slightest difficulty, and the general 



108 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

interest and excitement they had produced in the French 
capital natui'ally inspired me with the desire to secure 
them for Her Majesty's Theatre, and to present them as 
a novel attraction to my subscribers. An engagement 
was formed with Madame Weiss for the appearance of 
her extraordinary pupils in London, on their release from 
the French contract ; and it was understood that this 
engagement was to commence upon the opening night of 
the season of 1845. 

Unexpectedly the most untoward hindrances arose. 
The intimation came suddenly from Paris that the 
Austrian embassy " at the court of the Tuilleries " had 
refused passports for Madame Weiss and the children to 
England, and had transmitted orders from the Austrian 
Government for the return of the children, within a brief 
delay, to Vienna, under pain of being escorted back, as 
prisoners, by the police agents. No reasons for this 
very extraordinary order were given ; but the command 
was stated to be imperative. Diplomatic negociations 
were immediately opened on my part, through Lord 
Cowley's kind intermediation with the Austrian ambas- 
sador in Paris, in order to obtain a revocation of this 
strange measure. I endeavoured to anticipate, as far as 
I could, any objections that might be urged as to the 
possible treatment of the children, or to the nature of 
the engagement ; and pleaded- the pledges I had given 
both to the Court and the public for their appearance. 
Still I was "fighting in the dark," inasmuch as no objec- 
tions had as yet been alleged. The Austrian Embassy 
in Paris simply remained obdurate, advancing no reasons 
beyond " positive orders from the home Government." 
" The children must return, under the care of Madame 
Weiss, to Austria, or be re-conducted back by the police." 



" DANSEUSES VIENNOISES." 109 

In this state of embarrassment, M. Pillet came forward. 
His contract with Madame Weiss, he proved, lasted for 
some time longer, and he claimed his " rights." The 
French authorities now intervened in favour of M. Pillet, 
the Government of Louis Philippe supporting the claims 
of the Director of the French Opera, whose " rights " 
were firmly sustained. No further demand was made 
for the immediate return of the children to Vienna, but 
the passports for England were resolutely refused. 

In this position of afiairs the home authorities ap- 
peared upon the scene. I was informed by Lord Dela- 
ware, the Lord Chamberlain, that " official application " 
had been made at his office by the Austrian embassy in 
London, " to restrain a company of young ladies from 
performing in this country," &c., &c. Here again I 
endeavoured to combat this strange and mysterious 
resistence by every possible explanation that could be 
deemed satisfactory, and by every argument based upon 
the good faith which I myself had pledged to the English 
public. By the Lord Chamberlain's office every facility 
was affiarded to the vexed manager to " put matters 
straight " with the " paternal government " of Austria. 
At Lord Delaware's request I waited on Count Die- 
trichstein, the Austrian ambassador in London, the 
Lord Chamberlain being obliged by his official position 
to decline all direct intervention. At this interview I 
again urged the fact, that the " little fairies " were still 
permitted to dance in Paris ; that I had engaged them 
only for three months ; that no impediment had been 
originally thrown in the way of their engagement, and 
that it was only now, at the last moment, when I had 
paid over a large portion of the stipulated demand to 
Madame Weiss, and had pledged my word to "the most 



110 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

distinguished personages in the realm," as well as to the 
public, that an unexplained opposition was offered to 
my views. The interview might have been spared. 
To every appeal there was but one answer in the mouth 
of the German diplomatist: '' Orders from Vienna ! 
Orders from Vienna!" I retired, completely baffled 
by the one dogged answer. 

Negotiations, meanwhile, were carried on in Paris, 
through the intermediary assistance of Mr. Okey, the 
legal counsellor of the English embassy. Little by 
little, and as if with extreme reluctance, sundry specific 
objections oozed out. The " Paternal Government " 
had fears for the morality and the health of the " un- 
happy children." Documents were handed in to prove 
that the "unhappy children " were perfectly happy; that 
every care had been taken of their morality, their health, 
and their instruction. The ground was now changed. 
The next objection was to the' effect that the parents 
of the children were desirous of their return. It was 
proved that the children had been mostly taken from 
a half-starved condition in the .streets, and that the 
parents had all, in the first instance, looked upon their 
adoption by Madame Weiss as a providential boon. 
In this objection, however, there proved to be a faint 
show of reality. The parents had been latterly tam- 
pered with — by what means it was never allowed to 
transpire — and had objected to the continuance of their 
children with Madame Weiss, unless they received an 
increase of pay beyond that originally stipulated for 
with the dancing mistress. Further negotiations were 
entered into to obviate this hindrance, by means of one 
of the fathers (who was now brought over from Vienna 
for the purpose), and of three of the mothers, who had 



THE "Jesuits!" HI 

accompanied their children during the whole of their 
excursion. I made fresh terms with the parents, and 
thus put an end to any objection in that quarter ; but 
still the passports for England were obstinately withheld 
by the Austrian Government. At last — by what con- 
nivance, or what secret arrangement with the French 
authorities, does not clearly appear — Madame Weiss 
contrived to pass over from H&vre de Grace, where the 
children were dancing, and with these she reached Eng- 
land in safety. 

Their appearance was accordingly announced, when 
a strenuous effort was made to prevent it through the 
Lord Chamberlain's office. This put me on my mettle, 
and in my answer to the Chamberlain I claimed protec- 
tion, as a British subject, against the unreasonable 
injury that was sought to be inflicted on me. In the 
meanwhile the truth of the real objection against the 
engagement of the children in England had been dis- 
covered at Vienna. The ultra-montane party in Austria 
had used all their influence and powers of intrigue with 
the government to prevent the children passing over 
into an "heretical" country. Morality, health, parental 
affection, had all been used as " blinds." The real 
bugbear was now unveiled. The poor innocents, it was 
feared, might imbibe heretical notions along with their 
"tea and cakes," and at every rist were to be kept 
aloof from the frightful infection. When this truth once 
flashed abroad in England, the papers raised the cry of 
" Jesuitism !" a name often identified with that of the 
ultra-montane, or fanatical Eoman Catholic party, 
and denunciations came down upon the Austrian Go- 
vernment with bitter severity. Whether it was deemed 
prudent under these circumstances to remain quiet, or 



112 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

whether the Austrian Government was simply de guerre 
las, no more was heard of the opposition against the 
engagement of the Danseuses Viennoises, or of the threats 
against the recalcitrant Madame Weiss. Indeed I was 
officially informed by the Lord Chamberlain that, " for 
the present, proceedings are suspended." The children 
appeared at Her Majesty's Theatre, and their success 
even surpassed expectation, the interest felt for them 
being perhaps heightened by the strange episodes I have 
just recorded. 

The Danseuses Viennoises proved a great attraction 
and a great source of prosperity to the theatre during a 
large portion of the season of 1845. The enthusiasm 
in their favour was " all but " unanimous. A few 
objected that this style of dancing was perhaps not 
exactly adapted to the arena of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
One critic alone recklessly denied the now patent fact 
of ultra-montane intrigue, and raised the exploded cry 
of immorality ; but his shrill voice was little heard 
amid the tumult of general applause. In the " very 
highest circles " great interest was excited in favour of 
the " little fairies," and every mark of kindly feeling 
towards them profusely shown. The chief attraction 
of these extraordinary performers consisted in the mar- 
vellous precision with which the most intricate and com- 
plicated ensemble dances were executed, and in the spirit 
as well as juvenUe grace of the executants. The " Pas 
du Miroir," in which a portion of the little troop 
executed a very elaborate dance before a large gauze 
intended for a looking-glass, while another portion re- 
presenting the corresponding figures went through the 
reverse movements behind the medium with such accu- 
racy that the mirror-illusion was complete, was one 



OPERA mitSUS BALLET. 113 

of the most extraordinary of these curious exhibitions. 

The name of the genuine Spanish dancer, la Perea 
Nena, who made her appearance in England with a true 
exhibition of all the graces of the Spanish school of 
dancing, about the same time as tiheDanseusesViennoises, 
varying the attractions of the " legitimate " ballet, must 
not be omitted. Her success was decided. In after 
years she headed the Spanish troop at the " Little Hay- 
market" Theatre. 

The operatic performances ran on their usual course, 
with the old repertoire. " Don Pasquale," " Lucia," 
" Semiramide," "II Barbiere," "I Puritani," "II 
Pirata," and " Don Giovanni," attracted the respective 
admirers of these time-honoured operas, given with their 
customary exponents. But the ballet was still unques- 
tionably considered the principal feature of Her Majesty's 
Theatre, and various evidences might be adduced to prove 
that the jealousy of many an operatic artist was aroused 
by the fact. 

This feeling of annoyance and pique served, indeed, 
to augment the leaven of discontent and iU-will which 
once more began to cause ominous fermentation within 
the precincts of the theatre. A new ballet, " Kaya," 
was produced for Mademoiselle Grahn, and although, 
upon the whole, but coldly received, was taken as 
a proof of the desire of the management to bestow 
undue care upon the secondary department of the es- 
tablishment. The favourite Cerito reappeared in "La 
Vivandi^re," delighted the subscribers once in "Es- 
meralda," and was allowed, in her turn, a new ballet, 
called " Kosida, ou les Mines de Syracuse," which, by 
the way, was her own composition. These favours were 
construed into affronts to the operatic artists, not to be 

I 



114 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

endured without resentment. Besides, was not the 
advent of the Taglioni looked forward to as one of the 
greatest, if not the greatest event of the season ? Were 
there not also rumours afloat of some extraordinary 
composition looming in the future, in which all the 
great danseuses engaged were to be united in a marvel- 
lous pas d^ ensemble ? 

Taglioni did positively appear on the 26th of June, in 
the very ballet in which she had often won many hearts, 
viz., " La Sylphide," and was hailed with all the 
enthusiasm of old days. No one could be found to say 
that her former exquisite grace, her floating lightness of 
step, her bounding strength, bad been in the least im- 
paired by time ; and whatever may have been the truth, 
Taglioni was received by general acclamation as the 
Diesse de la Danse. In this respect the expectations 
of the management, as well as those of the public, were 
fully answered. Soon was to follow the famous Pas de 
Quatre, the unquestionable " sensation " effect of the 
season of 1845 ; and to this " great fact " it may be as 
well at once to refer here, although with some disdain of 
the chronological order of events. 

With such materials in my grasp as the four celebrated 
danseuses, Taglioni, Carlotta Grisi, Cerito, and Lucille 
Grahn, it was my ambition to unite them all in one 
striking divertissement. But ambition, even seconded by 
managerial will, scarcely sufficed to put so audacious a 
project into execution. No one could be more aware 
than myself of the difficulties I should have to encoun- 
ter. The government of a great state was but a trifle 
compared to the government of such subjects as those 
whom I was supposed to be able to command ; for 
these were subjects who considered themselves far above 



THE " PAS DE QDATEE." 115 

mortal control, or, more properly speaking, each was a 
queen in her own right — alone, absolute, supreme! 
Great indeed had been the effort during the previous 
season to place two queens of Brentford upon one throne! 
But to establish four queens with equal rights together 
on the ballet throne of such a state may well have been 
considered an impossibility, to be discarded from the 
mind as a vain dream, incapable of realisation. " Impossi- 
bility," however, was a word I did not like in this in- 
stance to admit to my vocabulary. I knew the force of 
the old French saying. Si c'est possible, c'est dSjafait; si 
c'est impossible, cela se fera. The impossible was to be 
done — nay, it was done. 

But there existed difficulties beyond even a manager's 
calculations. Material obstacles were easily overcome. 
"When it was feared that Carlotta Grisi would not be 
able to leave Paris in time to rehearse and appear for 
the occasion, a vessel was chartered from the Steam 
Navigation Company to waft the sylph at a moment's 
notice across the channel ; a special train was engaged 
and ready at Dover ; relays of horses were in waiting to 
aid the flight of the danseuse, all the way from Paris to 
Calais. These preparations were not the only means used 
on this trying occasion, where every chance of collision was 
to be avoided as instantaneously fatal to the vitality of 
the scheme ; tact, temper, and every attribute of the dip- 
lomatic art were to be exerted to the utmost. In the ex- 
ecution of the project the difficulties were again manifold. 
Every twinkle of each foot in every pas had to be nicely 
weighed in the balance, so as to give no preponderance. 
Each danseuse was to shine in her peculiar style and 
grace to the last stretch of perfection ; but no one was 
to outshine the others — unless in their own individual 

i2 



116 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

belief. Lastly, the famous pas de quatre was "composed" 
with all the art of which the distinguished ballet-master, 
Perrot, was capable. 

Let no one undervalue the magnitude of this tre- 
mendous task. I was informed by a well-known diplo- 
matist that, when the preparations for the solemnities and 
festivities attendant upon the Coronation of the Emperor 
of Austria as King of Lombardy, at Milan, were placed 
in his hands, the settlement of a pas de deux, to be 
danced by Carlotta Grisi and Cerito (although then com- 
paratively mere tyros at the Scala), cost him a hundred- 
fold more trouble than all the other complicated arrange- 
ments of the festival. 

All was at length adjusted. Satisfaction was in every 
mind ; the pas de quatre was rehearsed — was announced; 
the very morning of the event had arrived ; no further 
hindrances were expected. Suddenly, while I was en- 
gaged with lawyers in my own room, deeply occupied 
with the final arrangements for my purchase of the 
opera-house (of which more hereafter), poor Perrot 
rushed unannounced into my presence in a state of in- 
tense despair. "Without regard for the serious conclave 
assembled, he uttered frantic exclamations, tore his hair, 
•and at last found breath to say that all was over^ — that 
the pas de quatre had fallen to the ground and never 
could be given ! With difficulty the unfortunate ballet- 
master was calmed down to a sufficient state of reason to 
be able to explain the cause of his anguish. The comple-^ 
tion of the purchase of the opera-house was suspended for 
a few minutes and the explanation came, as follows: — 

When.all was ready I had desired Perrot to regulate the 
order in which the separate pas of each danseuse should 
come. The place of honour, the last'm such cases (as 



THE " PAS DE QUATRE." 117 

in regal processions), had been ceded without over-much 
hesitation to Mademoiselle Taglioni. Of the remain- 
ing ladies who claimed equal rights, founded on talent 
and popularity, neither would appear before the other. 
" Mon dieu!" exclaimed the ballet-master in distress, 
" Cento ne veut pas commencer avant Carhtta — ni Car- 
lotta avant Cerito, et iln'y a pas moyen de les faire bouger; 
tout estfinil" 

" The solution is easy," said I to poor Perrot. " The 
question of talent must be decided by the public. But 
in this dilemma there is one point on which I am sure 
the ladies will be frank. Let the oldest take her un- 
questionable right to the envied position."* 

The ballet-master smote his forehead, smiled assent, 
and bounded from the room upon the stage. The judg- 
ment of the manager was announced. The ladies 
tittered, laughed, drew back, and were now as much 
disinclined to accept the right of position as they had 
been before eager to claim it. The rnse succeeded. 
The management of the affair was left in Monsieur 
Perrot's hands. The order of the ladies being settled, 
the grand pas de quatre was finally performed on the 
same night before a delighted audience, who little knew 
how nearly they had been deprived of their expected 
treat. 

The excitement occasioned by the announcement of 
the wonderful ^os had been intense among the frequenters 
of Her Majesty's Theatre, and accordingly the theatre 
was crowded to suffocation, not only on the first, but on 
every night when it was given. The papers teemed 
with enthusiastic eulogiums. The ever-verdant "Punch," 

*.There is no class so sensitive on the subject of "age" as the danseuse; 
hence the force of this suggestion. 



118 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

and some of its minor satellites out of rivalry, pro- 
duced caricatures of the political pois de quatre. The 
varied excellencies of each danseuse were warmly and 
eagerly canvassed in every club, at every dinner, in 
every ball-room. From the palace to the shop-counter 
the pas de quatre was the great topic of the day, to the 
exclusion of every interest, however serious. The ex- 
citement crossed the channel. Foreign papers circulated 
histories and descriptions of its wonders. Foreign 
courts received, along with official despatches, detailed 
accounts of its extraordinary captivations. It was 
literally a European event ! It probably formed the 
culminating point in the History of the Ballet in 
England. 

Such was the London world of 1845. Who cares for 
the ballet now ? Unless there comes a reaction we shall 
perhaps find in a few years choreographic artists as little 
regarded as the singers in a chorus. However, these 
have their feelings as well as other people. I was once 
told of a chorus whose members felt deeply humiliated 
by the remark of the stage-manager to the effect that 
choruses were never noticed. The performance of this 
sensitive body was, generally, to say the best, indifferent, 
and on one occasion was so utterly execrable as to elicit 
a hiss from every part of the house. " There," cried one 
of the deUnquents, triumphantly, " we are noticed after 
all ! " 



119 



CHAPTEK XL 

SeaBon of 1845 (Continuei). — Barroilliet and Rossi Caccia. — " Roberto 
Devereux " — Dissensions with Grisi and Mario — The box grievances 
— Survey of affairs — Vexatious attacks on the Management by in- 
dividual Complainants — Financial prosperity — I purchase the lease 
of Her Majesty's Theatre — Testimonial offered by the artists on that 
occasion. 

The enchanting monotony of tlie customary operatic 
repertoire, in which " La Gazza Ladra," with Grisi, 
" Linda di Chamouni," with Castellan, " Lucrezia 
Borgia " and " Otello," with Mario, succeeded the old 
favourites already cited, was broken at last on the 24th 
of June, by the appearance of Barroilhet and Madame 
Eossi Caccia in " Roberto Devereux," Both came 
before the English public with a very high reputation, 
and consequently were worthy and legitimate engage- 
ments for a director of Her Majesty's Theatre, anxious 
to lay all available talent of note before his subscribers 
and his public. Neither, however, achieved any notable 
success, or made any very durable impression. M. Bar- 
roilhet was the favourite and admired baritone of the 
Academie of Paris. On the boards of the Parisian 
grand opera his reputation was immense. As the king in 
" La Favorita," and the mad monarch in Halevy's opera 
of " Charles VI., he had been proclaimed without an 
equal. 



120 KEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

He came to London, however, with power somewhat 
impaired by time and exertion, still more by recent 
severe illness. Moreover, the rdle of "Nottingham" 
(though originally composed for him) was less favour- 
able to his style than the parts in which he obtained 
repute in Paris. He appeared in two operas only, and 
then returned to France to recruit his failing health. 

The lady above-named, who had "led the business" 
both at the Opera Comique and at the Grand Opera, of 
Paris, and who afterwards achieved successes on dif- 
ferent continental theatres (especially at Lisbon, where 
she was the favourite j?nma donna of the day), scarcely 
succeeded in maintaining the position she had previously 
acquired when she came before the somewhat spoiled, 
and always fastidious, audience of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
She obtained, it is true, a share of approbation ; 
but it was only moderate. Still she stood her ground as 
a regular member of the company, taking parts in the 
" Cosi fan Tutte " of Mozart, and the " Prova d'una 
Opera Seria." Nay, upon the sudden announcement 
of an inopportune "indisposition" on the part of Madame 
Grisi, only a few minutes before the commencement of 
the opera, and actually after the doors were opened, she 
rendered good service to the management by undertaking 
the part of Norma at so short a notice. The audience 
assembled on the occasion testified its sense of her good 
will by an unexpected reception and lavish plaudits 
throughout the whole evening; and Madame Rossi Caccia, 
although not to be cited as a thoroughly successful 
artist, retired from the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, 
after a performance honoured by sufficiently flattering 
applause. 

Thus much respecting a season of unwonted brilliancy 



HARBINGERS OF THE STORM. 121 

and prosperity, " before the curtain." But the curtain 
has still to be raised. There was much behind it 
far less satisfactory. Dissension, intrigue, and ill-will 
were again lifting their heads, and aiming at mastery. 
Bright as was the aspect on the public side of that 
curtain, there were clouds rising on the other side, preg- 
nant with mischief for the future. Two " compellors of 
the storm" are visible, in their strength, above the 
others — the two ancient malcontents, or rather the two 
" rolled into one." In the records of the theatre, beyond 
the reach of the public gaze, Madame Grisi continually 
appears in the foreground, with " indispositions," and 
refusals to sing such and such a part — Elisetta in 
the " Matrimonio Segreto," for instance, which she had 
accepted in the previous season ; she complains of the 
monotony of the old repertoire, and yet speaks slight- 
ingly, if not with scorn, of the new roles offered her. 
There are indications of collision on many occasions — 
actual collisions and angry words on others ; " wars and 
rumours of wars " are frequent ; and at length comes a 
letter from Madame Grisi's lawyer, complaining of her 
box not being at her disposal on an extra night, and de- 
manding the sum of twelve guineas, for which sum it had 
been let on that occasion. I demur to the grounds upon 
which her claims to the box on extra nights are based ; 
assert that the box had been hitherto placed at her ser- 
vice as a matter of courtesy, not of right — a courtesy 
not intentionally discontinued — deprecate the course that 
the lady has unadvisedly taken in applying at once to a 
legal adviser, and leave her to find that remedy in the 
law, to which in fact she has already had recourse ; I 
take this opportunity to remark upon "the unseemly 
conduct pursued by her on two recent occasions," and her 



122 KEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

general behaviour towards the management, as forming 
a "discreditable exception" to the "otherwise order- 
ly conduct of the company." This storm, sharp and 
noisy as were the thunder-claps, was but a prelude 
to the strife of elements that was presently to ensue. 
Side by side with the irritable and ambitious lady, stands 
the other notable transgressor — whose " indispositions " 
are, if possible, still more frequent, and who, on his own 
side, claims the right of refusing parts, in which, never- 
theless, he had previously appeared. As a pendant to 
the box-grievance of the lady, appears a more complicat- 
ed one on the part of the gentleman upon an occasion 
when, the " affair" having partly taken place before the 
public, the matter became in consequence the subject of 
" town-talk." 

On the night of Saturday, the 26th April, Signer 
Mario appeared as the Almaviva of the " Barbiere ;" 
but only to disappear in the very first scene. An 
apology was made for " huskiness," and he again 
came on, omitting his " aria." Discontent began to be 
manifest. The "Rosina" (Madame Grisi) came forward, 
but commenced her air in such "admired disorder," that 
further manifestations of disapprobation arose. The 
prima donna, in her turn, came to a stand-still, and con- 
fronted the audience with wrathful brow. The jollity of 
Lablache for a time restored something like composure : 
at the commencement of the celebrated finale, however, 
Almaviva having reappeared, and murmurs having 
been again heard, the indignant tenor left the stage, to 
return no more that evening. The inimitable humour of 
Lablache, expressed at this sudden flight, restored the 
audience to good temper by its irresistible comicality. 
Another apology was made — Signor Corelli had been 



DISSENSIONS WITH GRISI AND MARIO. 123 

sent for ; and after some delay, the opera proceeded, 
with Corelli as the Almaviva of the night. An angry 
correspondence ensued between the management and the 
offending tenor : I, on my part, protesting that with but 
a slight display of good will, Signor Mario might have 
spared such an indignity to the subscribers and the 
public — the recalcitrant tenor imperatively asserting that 
on his partj with failing voice, and the burden of public 
disapprobation, he was wholly dans ses droits in leaving 
the stage abruptly. The breach between the manage- 
ment and two artists, with whom it was difficult to nego- 
ciate, and whom it was next to impossible to control, 
was thus widened more and more ; until, with other ele- 
ments of discontent (not apparently prominent until the 
ensuing season) the chasm became so wide and deep, so 
impossible to bridge over by concession, that a rupture 
was positively looked forward to as a relief. 

With a comprehension of this condition of affairs — when 
refusals of parts, " indispositions " to sing, and* forced 
collisions, were of such frequent occurrence — ^it is curious 
to stumble upon a correspondence in such close but con- 
trasting connexion with the recalcitrant artists. Letters 
are still extant, in which a noble duke and his duchess, 
who had been accustomed to show considerable interest 
in Her Majesty's Theatre, take the manager " to task " 
in good set terms, especially for not producing Madame 
Grisi and Signor Mario sufficiently often to please them. 
His grace complains of the " absurdity " of attempting 
to bring forward a singer " without the slightest merit," 
like Madame Eossi Caccia, and " that very ridiculous 
man, Monsieur Barroilhet " (alluding to the favourite 
baritone of the Great French Opera), and warns the man- 
ager that, under such a system, " persons of rank and 



124 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA.. 

fashion " will " no longer frequent the opera ;" that, as 
an inevitable consequence, even my " Railroad people, 
who cmne up and take boxes " (underlined in the original 
text), and " for whom so much is done," will " desert the 
theatre;" and that "the property will become valueless;" 
finally he announces his intention of disposing of his 
box, and threatens me with further remonstrance. This 
latter threat is speedily followed up by a species of 
" round robin," signed by seventeen " influential sub- 
scribers," who express their " dissatisfaction at the 
absence of Signor Mario and Madame Grisi from the 
stage " so frequently ; understand with regret that, " in 
a forthcoming opera, these artists are to be excluded 
from any share in the performance," and inform the 
lessee, that a course, so prejudicial to the interest of the 
subscribers, will, if persevered in, compel them " to 
make a different arrangement with regard to the opera 
another season." The lady writes in a somewhat less im- 
perative strain, but states that, " finding the system of 
giving all good representations on a Thursday still pur- 
sued," and not having the enjoyment of Mario and Grisi 
as frequently as suits her grace's views, she has " begged 
the duke not to complete the purchase of his box," as 
she would " rather be without one, than always be dis- 
appointed." "A royal duchess," she continues to observe, 
" authorises her to express a similar dissatisfaction," and 
she winds up by suggesting sundry operas that would 
please her better than those already advertised. In 
my answers to these extraordinary and angry remon- 
strances, addressing the duke, T enumerate sundry new 
operas in which both Mario and Grisi have declined to 
take the parts offered them ; show that, as regards the 
" forthcoming opera," " I Lombardi," long previous to 



COMPLAINTS AND REMONSTRANCES. 125 

the principal part having been given to another artiste, 
Madame Grisi had declined to take it ; and that, as 
regards " Eoberto Devereux," it was at Madame Grisi's 
request that the part of the Queen had been given to 
another. I then call his grace's attention to the fact 
that, of twenty-five " subscription nights," Madame 
Grisi has appeared in fifteen; whilst, of' the remaining 
ten, Madame Castellan has appeared in six, Madame 
Rita Boria in two only, Madame Rossi Caccia in two ; 
that Signer Mario has appeared in thirteen performances. 
Signer Corelli in two, and Signor Moriani in eleven, 
from which I beg leave to deduct the parts of Pollione 
in " Norma," and Carlo in " Linda di Chamouni," 
since, whenever those operas were given, Signor Mario 
had " requested to be excused " from playing them, as 
heretofore. To the duchess a similar answer is made, 
expressing at the same time my sorrow at not having 
secured her grace's " unalloyed approbation," and 
assuring her, that from the beginning of the season 
up to that period, nothing had been given on an " extra 
night " that had not already been presented on a " sub- 
scription night," with one trifling exception, caused by 
the desire of the manager to meet the wishes of that very 
same royal duchess, whose " dissatisfaction " her grace 
was " authorised to express," I have reason to think 
that such explanations did prove satisfactory, and that 
" the kind and considerate feeling " of both their graces 
did induce them to form " a more favourable opinion of 
my exertions." 

Unjustly and heavily as these reproaches fell, they 
formed but items in the general rage for remonstrances, 
complaints, attacks, and requirements, not unfrequently 
conflicting and contradictory. 



126 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

The manager of Her Majesty's Theatre was evidently 
considered fair game for persecution, and persecuted he 
accordingly was. Some obliging gentlemen, who would 
have blushed to ask for money at his hands, would, with 
the greatest coolness, press him and expect him to make 
engagements with artists, not only involving consider- 
able and immediate pecuniary loss, but fraught with 
eventual disastrous consequences. Should such requests 
be refused, the offended dilettanti vowed eternal enmity, 
and the exercise of all their " power and influence " 
against the obstinate manager. A rather more excep- 
tional case is the expression of " astonishment and dis- 
gust " on the part of an habitue, at the omission of his 
favourite air on one occasion (the air having been 
omitted for reasons of decorum), and his threat to 
"warn the public," through the public prints, if the 
omission should ever occur again. Others demanded 
the re-instalment of certain coryphees dismissed for 
reasons of discipline. Another, again, to please his 
individual fancy, calls for an entire ballet for Taglioni, 
who ought not to appear before him in a mere 
divertissement! "Old subscribers" insist on changes 
in the performance, and announce their displeasure if 
the demand be not immediately met. " Club men " 
protest against operas that they consider "a bore." 
Men of influence want the chief singers, otherwise en- 
gaged, to sing at their private concerts, and think a 
change of performance for this purpose a mere trifle, such 
as may be granted without remonstrance or hesitation. 

Anonymous letters of advice and denunciation arrive 
in legion guise, promising a host of concealed enemies if 
advice should be overlooked, or denunciation disregarded. 
In the midst of all these various untoward vexations. 



COMPLAINTS AND REMONSTRANCES. 127 

arise more serious considerations, often most perplexing 
to the management. 

Alterations in the programme of a night's performance 
are constantly suggested, changes in the announcements 
desired, and demands, not easily gratified but difficult to 
refuse, perplex the already oppressed manager. Now it 
is desired that the "divertissement should take place 
after the first act," — now, that the "divertissement 
should be shortened, but the Viennoises left untouched ;" 
now again, that " the children should dance only once, 
between the acts, and perhaps twice afterwards, in order 
that the ' Minuet de la Cour,' or some favourite pas may 
appear earlier." Then comes a "strongly expressed 
wish " that " the dancing should be curtailed ;" on 
another occasion, that it be suppressed altogether. Once 
more, the bill must be changed, for the performance of 
" Cosi fan Tutte," or " Otello," or " The Desert." 

To meet these wishes, so continually expressed, was my 
earnest desire ; but the difficulty of compliance was often 
found insurmountable, when the conflicting interests and 
demands of the subscribers, of the public at large, and 
of the artists themselves, were all to be weighed in 
the balance. 

How I ever was able to thread my way through this 
entangled labyrinth, can only be understood — if under- 
stood it ever can be — by those who themselves have ad- 
ventured upon similar paths ! And in the midst of aU 
this embarrassment, quarrels have to be settled with in- 
fluential noblemen, because their friends, or members of 
their family, have been refused entrance for not being in 
strict " evening dress^" Then there is the old, old 
grievance, still ever new — of the demands of artists for 
unreasonable outlays on dresses, for particular dressing 



128 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

rooms, boxes, &c.; then "indispositions," slights, or prefer- 
ences — the querulous remonstrances from gentlemen be- 
cause some solicited interview has not been immediately 
granted. Again, complaints from rival managers, that 
coryphees or choristers have broken engagements with 
them, and have gone to Her Majesty's Theatre ; then 
quarrels about tittle-tattle scandal and acrimonious 
female jealousies behind the scenes ; then quarrels with 
would-be " fine gentlemen " and press critics, who desire 
exclusive privileges, and when refused dip their pens 
in the bitterest gall. Quarrels serious — quarrels about 
nothing — all adding to the conflict of government, and 
the wear and tear of mind and body, and lasting to the 
end of my management. 

Compensations in some degree for all these distresses, 
troubles, and heart-sores are not wanting, certainly, dur- 
ing the season of 1845. Financial success is a great 
balm ; and to a right-thinking man, a still greater may 
be found in the favourable testimony of those whom he 
seeks to please. Letters innumerable from well-wishers, 
some thoroughly unknown as well as independent, lie in 
too mountainous a store to be touched upon. I receive 
a snuff-box from the Dowager Queen Adelaide, in ac- 
knowledgement not only of my " obliging attention and 
ability " on the occasion of a juvenile fete given by Her 
Majesty at Marlborough House, where the Danseuses 
Viennoises executed some of their favourite pas, but 
with a grateful sense " of my general services.'*' 
Amongst other testimonials I must not omit that of Mr. 
Mitchell, of Bond Street who, on his own part, offers me a 
handsome vase, in acknowledgment of " the high ability 
and the liberality with which the general arrangements of 
the opera seasons have been conducted." Above all t 



PURCHASE OF THE THEATRE. 129 

would mention a magnificent testimonial from the artists 
of the establishment — a worthy precursor of the still 
more valuable testimonial from "the subscribers" received 
during the following season. The presentation of this testi- 
monial was, perhaps, the most gratifying incident of the 
year. It was spontaneously " got up " by the co-opera- 
tion of all the artists, in both the operatic and the choreo- 
graphic departments of the theatre — ^with the exception of 
two notable names, including that of Signor Costa, the 
musical director — and was presented to me on the 18th of 
July, with the following inscription : — " Hommage a 
Monsieur B. Lumley, par les artistes du Theatre de Sa 
MajestS, en commemoration de Vheureux evenement qui 
assure a ce Theatre la continuation de sa hienveillante et 
juste administration." 

The " heureux evenement" to which reference is made 
by this testimonial, was the purchase of the Opera 
House from the assignees of Mr. Chambers, completed 
by myself during this year (1845). This event, so 
important in the history of my management, must not be 
dismissed without some explanation in detail. 

Independently of the confusion attending the bank- 
ruptcy of Mr. Chambers, the affairs of the opera-house 
had been for many long years involved in seemingly 
inextricable and interminable litigation. Actions in all 
possible Courts of Law, Chancery suits, bankruptcies — 
every species of what the uninitiated would class under 
the general appellation of "bewilderment" — encumbered 
the property on all sides. To sweep the Augean stables 
of Her Majesty's Theatre clean of all this mass of 
legal rubbish, had been the Herculean task which I had 
inherited from the first period of my assumption of 
the management. Slowly had I proceeded towards an 

K 



130 REMINISCENCES Qf THE OPERA. 

end which most men declared unattainable, during all these 
years. My endeavours were by degrees rewarded by pro- 
gress, and light gradually dawned through the legal 
miasma which had so long surrounded me. But although 
I thus seemed approaching the desired end, the comple- 
tion of the sale was long retarded by the impossibility 
of any settlement being come to between the assignees 
of Mr. Chambers and the representatives of Mr. Waters. 
It was necessary to await the result of an appeal 
pending in the House of Lords, between the pai'ties 
with whom conciliation and compromise appeared im- 
possible. The investigation of the title, and the 
arrangement of the various and conflicting interests 
having claims upon the property, were in themselves but 
huge portions of the gigantic work. It was by virtue 
of a decree of the Court of Chancery, at last, that I 
was able" to complete my contemplated purchase,' The 
assignment of the property by the assignees was 
eventually made out, and the purchase money paid 
over to them by me on the 24th July — the very day on 
which the great Pas de Quatre, the other notable event 
of the season, was to be produced. 

I had to raise a portion of the capital, which amounted 
to the sum of £105,000, and therefore disposed of certain 
of the boxes to members of the aristocracy, and men of 
fashion and standing, for a term of years — a proceeding 
by no means novel, and not unfrequently employed by 
those who had previously rendered themselves possessors 
of this vast property. Setting aside the value of this 
pecuniary assistance, the sale of boxes was regarded, 
at the time, as forming a permanent bond of con- 
nexion between many influential men of the day and 
the fortunes of Her Majesty's Theatre, while it afi^orded 



CLOSE OF 1845. 131 

evidence of the confidence and esteem with which the 
existing management was regarded. 

At last, then, after something like fifty years of 
bankruptcy and litigation, the property became disen- 
cumbered of its legal incubus — the clouds hanging 
ceaselessly over the opera-house were dispelled — and 
the ownership of the establishment, for all time (as it 
then appeared) permanently fixed in the hands of one 
whose exertions had, as it would seem, conjured light out 
of darkness. 

With this event, of deep interest to all concerned, 
the record of the stirring and prosperous season of 1845 
may now be brought to a close. 



k2 



132 



CHAPTER XII. 

Season of 1846— The Theatre embellished anew— Germs of disagreement 
between the Direction and Signor Costa,— Retirement of the latter 
from his post in the Orchestra— Grounds of the rupture between 
him and the Director— Mr. Balfe appointed in place of Signor Costa 
— ^Rumours relative to the rise of a Rival Establishment — Symptoms 
of secession on the part of La Vieille Garde — Lablache holds fast by 
"Her Majesty's" — Efforts made to bring back Rubini — ^Verdi's 
Music advances in Popular Estimation — He undertakes to compose 
an opera for Her Majesty's Theatre, but fails on account of ill- 
health — " Nabucco," its success — Remarks on the injurious effect of 
alterations in the Story — The old Repertoire resumed, with the 
leading Artists, after Easter, with the addition of "I Lombardi" 
of Verdi — Furious opposition waged against Verdi — ^The libretto bad 
— ^The Ballet of " LaUa Rookh," splendid decorations bestowed upon 
it — Arrival of TagUoni — "La Gitana" — "Pas des Dresses" — 
Review of the Season, ending with a " Row " at the Theatre — ^Early 

' negotiations with Jenny Lind. 

Previously to the opening of the season of 1 846, I had 
entirely renovated and freshly decorated my new 
property, at a cost of £10,000. In some degree I was 
rewarded for my pains ; since the season of 1846 proved, 
like that of 1843, 1844, and 1845, eminently successful 
in a financial as well as an artistic point of view. But 
it was destined to be one of the most harassing and 
troublous periods of my management, as will be readily 
understood when I state, that in this season was pro- 
jected that disastrous secession which prepared the way 
for the establishment, of a second Italian Opera. 



DISAGREEMENNT WITH COSTA. 133 

The " secession move " began in an unexpected 
quarter. Some time before the opening of the theatre 
the musical "world" of London was suddenly startled by 
the announcement that Signor Costa was no longer to be 
the musical conductor of the Italian Opera, and that Mr. 
Balfe had already signed an engagement to succeed him. 
Rumours were instantly afloat that it was solely on 
account of his having accepted the conductorship of the 
Philharmonic Society that Signor Costa had been dis- 
placed. Surmises to this elFect having been stated and 
discussed in the public papers, I was imperatively called 
upon to publish a statement of my own. In a letter 
which appeared in all the daily prints, addressed to 
Signor Costa, I admitted that I had long since pro- 
tested against the engagement with the Philharmonic 
Society, as " incompatible with the terms of Signor 
Costa's existing engagement, and with his duties at the 
opera," the extent of business at which demanded the 
" undivided attention of its musical director;" but at the 
same time I declared that I had already increased the 
salary of the conductorship at the opera by £200 a 
year (the amount offered to him by the Society), in order 
to obtain that " undivided attention " which was required 
of all operatic directors in similar establishments, and thiit 
I had never objected even to further increase of salary for 
the present year, to compensate Signor Costa for declining 
any offers made to him elsewhere. Under the (jircum- 
stances, I remarked, I could only look upon the step which 
Signor Costa had taken as the result of a " foregone de- 
termination " to retire from Her Majesty's Theatre. 

I then proceeded to state that the real cause of dis- 
agreement was, the intention of Signor Costa not to renew 
his engagement unless I would pledge myself to produce 



134 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

regularly an original opera composed by my conductor 
in one season, and an original ballet, the music also by 
him, in the following year^— a pledge which, for various 
specified reasons, I declined to give, especially when I 
reflected on the pecuniary failure which the opera of 
'' Don Carlos," a work never repeated at any other opera 
house either here or on the Continent, had entailed upon 
the establishment. This letter, courteous, but decided 
in its tone, elicited a warm reply from Signer Costa, in 
which he endeavoured to show that all my objections 
were overstated ; and this, in its turn, met with a re- 
joinder from me. But the fact upon which, as events 
turned out, the future fortunes of the opera-house so 
much depended, remained unchanged. Signer Costa 
ceased to be the conductor of Her Majesty's Theatre, 
and Mr. Balfe reigned in his stead. In a short space of 
time from the publication of these letters, vague rumours 
arose, succeeded by formal announcements, that Covent 
Garden Theatre was to be opened as a second Italian 
Opera. The secession of certain prominent and in- 
fluential members of the company, it was apparent, had 
been long since resolved upon, should circumstances 
ever prove favourable for their establishing themselves 
in any other theatre than that of " Her Majesty" — a 
theatre where the manager had determined to be master 
in his own house, and would not be controuled by the 
caprices of his " company." That the opportunity 
seemed now to be afforded them of pursuing their for- 
tunes in London under other auspices was clear enough, 
and there can be as little doubt that they considered 
the time to have arrived when long concerted plans 
might be put into execution. At all events, there were 
strong evidences on the face of the whole proceeding 



FIDELITY OF LABLACHE. 135 

fairly warranting suspicions that intestine intrigues 
were afloat, and that preparations for the coming secession 
were being actively carried on. Nevertheless, the names 
of Grisi and of Mario figured in the programme and in 
the salary list of the establishment, during the whole 
season of 1846 ; and internal differences were frequent 
even in the counsels of those who remained of the corps 
of la vieille garde. One of the most powerful members 
of the old coalition, Signor Lablache, protested against 
the whole scheme, and warned his younger colleagues 
against the error he conceived they were about to 
commit. This highly-gifted artist refused eventually to 
join in the plan, and, as is well known, remained 
staunch to the fortunes of the house in which he (along 
with the seceders) had achieved his English distinction. 
The coalition of la vieille garde — the object of Laporte's 
most lively apprehensions, and which had finally subju- 
gated in some sort his once bold spirit, was destined to 
be quickly broken up by its own incoherence. 

Excellent Lablache ! Excellent as an artist and as 
a man. With pleasure do I pause from the record of 
schisms, schemes, and machinations to present a descrip- 
tion of the illustrious basso, written by a friendly but 
discriminating hand, while he was at the height of his 
glory. He has now passed away, and to the young of 
the present generation the faithful description of one 
who delighted their fathers, and who can never be re- 
placed, will surely prove welcome. 

" Of all the reigning favourites at the Italian Opera, 
Lablache is the oldest and longest established amongst 
us. He made his first appearance in this country six- 
teen or seventeen years since, and from that time, with 
the exception we believe of one year's secession, he has 



136 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

returned hither every spring with augmented favouritism. 
Sixteen or seventeen years is a long test applied to 
modern performers ; and he that could pass such an 
ordeal of time, must possess merits of the very highest 
order, such as could supersede the call for novelty, and 
make void the fickleness of general applause. All this 
Lablache has effected. The public, so far from being 
wearied at the long continued cry of ' Lablache the 
Great,' as the Athenians of old were tired of hearing 
Aristides everlastingly called ' The Just,' elevates him, 
if possible, into greater favouritism yearly ; and the 
management, if it for a moment contemplated such a 
change and could provide for it, dares not attempt to 
supply his place on the boards. But his place is not 
to be supplied : no other artist could half compensate 
his loss. Independent of his faculties as an actor and a 
singer, so great a lover is he of his art, that he will 
undertake with delight the most trifling character in the 
partition. Other actors and vocalists will not con- 
descend to do this, or else fear to let themselves down by 
doing so. Lablache hath no timidities about assuming 
a lesser part, nor doth he deem it condescension. 

"In the hands of genius the potter's clay canbe moulded 
into as exquisite a model of beauty as a. block of Parian 
stone can be. Assign to Lablache the meanest character in a 
piece — let him have the slightest foundation whereon his 
imagination may build, and he will erect a superstructure 
of no insignificant importance. Artists of questionable 
greatness may deem it a derogation to personate any 
save a leading part — Lablache feels he will not let himself 
down, he pulls up the character to his own elevation. 
From this it follows that no great singer within our 
recollection hath undertaken such a variety of charac- 



LABLACHE DESCRIBED. 137 

ters. We shall find him in every possible grade of 
representation. From the loftiest tragedy to the most 
burlesque comedy he is equally great and efficient. 
From " Brabantio" to " Don Pasquale" — from " Marino 
Faliero" to " Dandolo." Through all the gradations of 
passion and humour he exhibits a superior insight into 
humanity, and with the finest dramatic artifice and 
discrimination, seizes on the most salient points and 
strikes them out into bold relief, giving life and versi- 
militude to his abstractions. His tragedy is high-toned, 
calm, dignified, and expressive, and at times fraught 
with a most truthful energy. His imprecation on his 
daughter in ' Otello ' is equal in power and effect to 
■anything known on the stage. But it is in comedy that 
the whole artillery of his forces seems to be brought into 
play. As Dr. Johnson says, applying the phrase to 
Shakespeare, ' his comedy is instinct, his tragedy is 
skill.' In a comic part he fills up the stage with his 
acting, no less than with his voice and his size. Every 
character around him seems merely subsidiary. He is the 
sun of humour, about which the rest, as planets, perform 
their revolutions, deriving light and heat from him. He 
is the centre of gravity, that attracts all the laughing 
humours from his auditory. Yes, we say gravity, nor 
therein are we guilty of a bull. In his most whimsical 
efforts his countenance is as serious as that of a mid-day 
owl. While all around are convulsed with cachinations, 
his face is as composed as that of a Chinese mandarin, or a 
Spanish hidalgo's, when sitting for a genealogical portrait. 
His comedy is not sparkling and effervescent, like cham- 
pagne, it partakes more of the flavour and body of 
tokay ; you may sip it, the smallest taste is palateable. 
He possesses somewhat of the stolidity of Liston, with 



138 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

occasionally the rich raciness of Dowton. His humour 
is as rotund as his person, and his person is a vessel of 
wit and mirth, 

"Lablache's voice is an organ of most extraordinary 
power. It is impossible by description to give any 
notion of its volume of sound. He is an ophicleide 
among singers. One may have some idea of this power 
of tone when it can be truly asserted that, the entire 
opera band and chorus playing and singing forte, his 
voice may be as distinctly heard as a trumpet among 
violins. He is the very stentor of vocalists. When he 
sings he rouses the audience as the bugle does the war- 
horse, or as the songs of Tyrtseus reanimated the Spartans. 
With this prodigious vehicle of sound, his singing is dis- 
tinguished by superior softness and expression. He is 
a great master of his art, and manages the lights and 
shades with judgment and skill. 

"Lablache is a thorough musician, and no artist on 
the stage excels him in the knowledge and appliances of 
his art. He has written a work on the principles of 
singing, which has been published in England ; and he 
was chosen some years since as the vocal instructor of 
her most gracious Majesty Queen Victoria. 

''This artist is as great in person as he is in 
fame. He is nearly, if not quite, six feet high. His 
figure, though exuberant, is portly and commanding, 
and his entire head one of the finest that ever decorated 
a human body. Notwithstanding the opinions about 
him and the cognomen of 'old,' which for many years 
has attached itself to his name, Lablache is still com- 
paratively young." 



To resume my. narrative. It Was not till the ensuing 



OEIGINAL CAUSES OF SECESSION. 139 

season that the fact of the intended secession came 
plainly before the public ; but however outward appear- 
ances might be preserved by those seceders who were 
still members of my company, and still received their 
emoluments from my treasury, it is unquestionably 
to the period now under notice that the story, not only 
of its commencement but of its progress, rightly be- 
longs. A brief recapitulation, therefore, of the principal 
causes of an event which cannot be regarded otherwise 
than as the turning-point in the fortunes of my manage- 
ment, may here be considered admissible. 

Early in her career of triumph, the popular idol of 
the day, the adored prima donna, Giuglietta Grisi, not 
content with her ascendancy over the public, aimed at 
such a participation in the conduct of affairs as might 
enable her to direct the arrangements according to the 
dictates of her caprice. It was not the first time that a 
prima donna assoluta had grasped at such a tempting 
sceptre in the pride of her popularity, nor assuredly 
will it be the last. This design was unquestionably 
supported by the coalition of the vieille garde, who 
conceived themselves irresistible. 

Alarmed at the ever-growing encroachments of the 
clique. Monsieur Laporte had conceived the design of 
breaking the bond of union at any venture. The first 
expeinment was made, as has been already recount- 
ed, by the determination not to re-engage Signer Tam- 
burini. It will have been seen how the intrigues of the 
coalition were made to bear upon the management, 
chiefly through female influence and fascinations, exer- 
cised over men of rank and fashion. They succeeded 
for a time, but when resistance was again applied, the 
attempt at their repetition failed. The minor weapons 



140 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of indisposition and ill-humour, then employed to thwart 
the management in all its chief efforts, produced only the 
immediate result — they could indeed have no other — of 
irritating and annoying ; but they were of practical use 
in disposing the public mind to a belief in grievances. 
So far the clique had some success in the battles that 
were continually waging behind the scenes. 

The chief instigators of the mischief having acquired 
a hold upon the public — legitimately Avon, it must be 
owned — were placed in a position of formidable strength. 
A further experiment was made on the part of the 
management by the removal of Madame Persian!, to 
offer room for novelty and the introduction of younger 
talent. By this step the vieille garde found itself sensi- 
bly weakened, whilst the management gained ground. 
Still the resources of the artist-body were far from ex- 
hausted, and a plan of secession was contemplated, to 
be put in execution when made practicable by favour- 
able circumstances. The time apparently approached 
for the striking of the grand coup, since long before 
the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre for the season of 
1846, positive statements of the opening of a second 
Italian Opera were to be read in all the public prints ; 
the secession of Signor Costa being referred to as a pre- 
lude to the great event. The scheme at this very 
early hour was spoken of as nearer completion than was 
generally imagined. Certainly, the notices which 
appeared contemporaneously with the correspondence 
between me and Signor Costa, were strong intimations 
of that "foregone determination," taken in secret, of 
which 1 had complained. Thus the season, however 
prosperous from a financial point of view, was certain 
to be troublous, and fraught with unusual anxiety. 



HOSTILE PROCEEDINGS OF THE PRESS. 141 

Long before the opening night, batteries were opened 
against me in sundry quarters, by persons who had con- 
sidered themselves in any way slighted or aggrieved, as 
if in anticipation of the coming struggle. Even before 
the great wars commenced, and when there were but 
"rumours of wars," these skirmishers were in the field to 
launch their arrows at the management of Her Majesty's 
Theatre, in the interests of secession. The shafts of one 
of these hostile sharp-shooters, whose amour propre had 
been grievously hurt by some constructive incivility on the 
part of the officials of the theatre, were tipped with a 
peculiar venom that personal enmity could alone have 
supplied. It is curious, too, to see how a name, after- 
wards so intimately and gloriously connected with my 
management — that of Mademoiselle Jenny Lind, the great 
Swedish singer — could be used as a weapon of attack. 
E.umours having already arisen that this celebrated artist 
would be eventually engaged for the Italian Opera in the 
Haymarket, a flat contradiction was boldly given to them, 
■with the evident aim of imputing to me misrepresenta- 
tions, the journal employed for that purpose being en- 
gaged, heart and soul, in support of the rival establish- 
ment. It was not until the following year, however, 
that, on the reiteration of the same bold denial, a pub- 
lished correspondence took place, an outline of which will 
be found in its proper place. 

In the midst of these hostile preparations, and in the 
face of the impending struggle, I was subjected to many 
disappointments and annoyances in my arrangements 
for the ensuing season. I had been for some time sus- 
tained by the hope that Kubini would consent to emerge 
from the retirement in which he had secluded himself, 
and once more resume his position on the Anglo-Italian 



142 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

boards. As the time for the fresh season drew nigh, I 
wrote to the great tenor to remind him of a promise given 
during a journey we had made together in the previous 
autumn. This was, indeed, simply a promise to visit 
London during the season of 1846 ; but was it to be 
supposed that he could enter the doors of Her Majesty's 
Theatre without appearing on the stage ? He was urged 
to undertake a brief engagement, with all the earnestness 
of eloquence, and with the assurance that his re-appear- 
ance would be hailed by all with delight. But the tenor 
insisted upon remaining "coy" in his retreat. He wrote 
me the most flattering letters ; reiterated his assurance, 
that, if he ever did appear again in public, it sliould be 
at Her Majesty's Theatre, under my management ; but 
he remained firm in his determination. 

From another quarter came a fresh disappointment. 
In spite of the hostility to Signor Verdi's compositions 
expressed by the rigid critics of the day, there was an 
undoubted prestige connected with his name which ex- 
cited curiosity and commanded attention. His success 
in his own country was triumphant — his fame was spread 
throughout the Continent. A new work, therefore, com- 
posed by Verdi, "expressly for Her Majesty's Theatre," 
was a legitimate object of desire ; and terms had even 
been arranged with him for the composition of an opera, 
founded on " King Lear," the principal part in which 
was destined for Lablache. Rumours of the forthcoming 
operatic novelty had found publicity ; and expectations 
were naturally raised. Here was in prospect not only an 
entirely new opera from a celebrated composer, but also 
a leading part for the greatest dramatic singer of his time. 
As evil fortune would have it, about this time Signor 
Verdi's health gave way ; he was unequal to the arduous 



THE DANSEUSES VIENNOISES. 143 

task, and the opera itself was not forthcoming. A further 
change in the arrangements for the season was necessi- 
tated at a late hour, by the uncertainties that arose rela- 
tive to the re-engagement of the "Fairy Troop" of 
Danseuses Viennoises, who had proved so great and 
lucrative an attraction in the previous year, and had 
been confidently relied upon as one of the prominent 
features of the season. Having learnt, however, that 
the cleverest of the children composing the troupe of the 
previous year had left Madame Weiss, their mistress, 
either to return to their own country or accept other 
engagements, and that their places had been filled by 
novices, who were being newly drilled, I declined to 
carry out the project of re-engagement. The question 
arising as to whether the contract between Madame 
Weiss and myself for the engagement of her little troop 
of dancers referred to the body as originally constituted, 
or to a7iy ballet "troupe" she might provide, the afiair 
eventually became the subject of an action brought by 
Madame Weiss, but subsequently abandoned. Mean- 
while a further disappointment stood in the way of 
the manager, the opening of whose new season was 
now close at hand. I had entered into negociations 
with Heine, the celebrated German poet, respecting a 
ballet, upon the composition of which he was known 
to have been engaged. This project was again neces- 
sarily deferred ; but the history of my negociations 
respecting it belongs more properly to a subsequent 
period. 

And now, amidst all these contretemps and difiiculties, 
anxieties for the future, and chequered successes in the 
present, the opening night of the season drew near. 
Grisi, Castellan, Mario, Lablache, Fornasari, Corelli, and 



144 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

other princjipal members of the previous company, still 
figured on the list of lyric artists ; and in addition to 
these were promised Mademoiselle Sanchioli, a prima 
donna of reputation from Rome, whose dramatic talents 
were said to be great, and a new comprimaria in Made- 
moiselle Corbari, whose beauty had apparently excited 
considerable sensation. The new names of Bencich and 
Castigliano figured also among the expected male singers. 
In the ballet "programme" were the seductive names of 
the Taglioni, who was about to take, once tnore, a "last 
farewell " of the English public — of Cerito, and Lucille 
Grahri, of Louise Taglioni, a niece of the eminent danseuse 
(not however the young artist who afterwards became de- 
servedly a favourite), with a host of fascinating coryphSes. 
Among the male dancers were the names of Perrot, the 
great choreographe as he was styled, and the accom- 
plished St. Leon, attended by all their pantomimic satel- 
lites. In spite of the petulent criticisms of a portion 
of the press, henceforth ranged in the opposition ranks, 
the "programme" was pronounced a brilliant one: pre- 
senting an array that could not, in justice, be considered 
a "downfall" from previous glories, although this melan- 
choly word was taken up and repeated in every shape 
and every shade of phrase, by the leaders of the new 
army of opposition. 

Considerable curiosity had been excited respecting 
the new decorations of Her Majesty's Theatre ; so that 
when, on the 3rd of March, the season of 1846 opened, 
the theatre was crowded in every part. Of these 
gorgeous, and at the same time tasteful embellishments, 
a general approval prevailed ; M'hilst the aspect of the 
vast and elegant interior, in its fresh and magnificent 
array, struck every eye. Curiosity had been more legiti- 



a 



NABUCCO." 145 



mately, although perhaps less eagerly, excited by the 
striking novelties which the first night of the season was 
to produce. The "Nahucco" of Verdi, a work which 
was popular on the Continent, and had in some places 
caused a perfect furore, was selected to inaugurate the 
new scdle. That Verdi had already made way against 
his wholesale detractors, was rendered evident by the 
generally better feeling with which the music of " Na- 
bucco " was accepted. In a popular sense, the opera 
was a decided success ; the choral melodies especially 
suiting the public taste. The libretto, although faulty 
in many respects, was dramatic, and afibrded scope 
for fine acting and artistic emotion. "Nabucco," in 
short, floated on the sea of the Anglo-Italian stage, 
where, whilst one current was always rushing towards 
novelty, another tended to wreck all novelty whatever 
in the interests of so-called " classicism." Much had 
been done to place the opera with splendour on the 
stage, but though it pleased as a whole, no decided 
success attended the venture of the two new ladies. 
Sanchioli, wild, vehement, and somewhat coarse, at- 
tracted and excited by her " power, spirit, and fire," but 
she failed to charm. As a "declaiming, passionate 
vocalist," she created an effect ; but the very qualities 
which had rendered her so popular with an Italian 
audience, acted somewhat repulsively upon English 
opera-goers. The lack of refinement in her style was 
not in their eyes redeemed by the merit of energy. 
The electric impulse that communicated itself to the 
Italians, fell comparatively powerless on the British 
temperament. Sanchioli, however, was in many respects 
the " right woman in the right place," in this melo- 
dramatic opera. The other lady, Mademoiselle Corbari, 

L 



146 REMINISCENCES OE THE OPERA. 

though destinedin. after times to please greatly as analtra- 
jorima on the Anglo-Italian stage, and though she was 
considered from the first, charming, even " fascinating " 
in her simplicity and grace, was not yet acknowledged 
as a leading vocalist. The nervousness and inexperience 
of a novice, which she showed at this stage of her 
career, somewhat lessened the success due to a sweet 
voice and feeling style, though the prayer allotted to her 
character, Fenena, was encored nightly. Fornasari pleased 
those who remained of his old enthusiastic admirers, by 
his emphatic dramatic action and vigorous declamation, 
and thus far worked towards the success of Verdi's new 
opera. It is not unworthy of record that, in compliance 
with that repugnance which is prevalent in the English 
mind against any dramatic subject referring how- 
ever remotely to biblical history, and which had already 
transformed " Mose " into " Pietro L'Eremita," the 
" Nabucco " of the Italian stage was condemned to 
assume on this occasion an alias under the title of 
"Nino Ee D'Assyria." That the opera thus lost much 
of its original character, especially in the scene where 
the captive Israelites became very uninteresting Baby- 
lonians, and was thereby shorn of one great element of 
success, present on the Continent, is undeniable. 

The new ballet of "Catarina," or "La Fille du Bandit," 
with an interesting and clearly expounded story, withstrik- 
ing scenery and dresses, with Lucille Grahn as the heroine, 
and Perrot as chief dancer, deservedly met with good 
success, and eventually reached to a " run " of con- 
siderable length. It was indeed one of the best con- 
structed of Perrot's choreographic compositions. Thus 
the commencement of the season of 1846 might be 
looked upon as at once splendid, striking, and varied in 



CASTELLAN. 147 

its attractions, although probably failing to conciliate 
all the worshippers of " a past," which arrogated to itself 
the title of the " legitimate." 

On Tuesday the 17th of March, the "run" of 
" Nino " was interrupted, to give a trial to three young 
artists of some note, and of still greater promise. The 
opera of " Ernani " was selected, to enable Madame 
Pasini, Signor Castigliano (a pupil of Kubini), and Signor 
Bencich to appear, as soprano, tenor, and baritone, in 
the principal characters of that opera. All three 
failed, Signor Bencich alone being voted tolerable. 

Few persons are probably aware that this Madame 
Pasini was in fact one and the same with Madame 
Gassier, later known here. Early failures are not 
always fatal. Madame Pasta's first efforts were alto- 
gether ineffective on her first appearance in London. 
She sang the part of Emilia in " Otello " and completely 
failed. A few years afterwards she played Desdemona 
in that opera, and achieved an undoubted success. 
" Nino " again resumed its course, and was played 
till the return of Madame Castellan rendered a 
change at last imperative, for the " rentree " of a 
prima donna, already popular with the subscribers. 
She appeared on the 28th of March, in " Linda di 
Chamouni," and with her now habitual success. The 
representation offered no novelty, beyond the debut oi 
Mademoiselle G-aetanina Brambilla, a pleasant young 
contralto, in the part of Pierotto. Though bearing the 
same name, she was no relation, it was stated, of the 
more celebrated Marietta BrambUla; nor, although in 
many respects a clever and agreeable singer, did she 
threaten to rival her fame. Later, however, she made 
her way in Italy, and was esteemed an excellent 

L 2 



14:8 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Azucena. After this "appearance," claimed by position 
and popularity, Madame Castellan joined her forces 
with those of Mademoiselle Sanchioli in " Belisario." 
In this opera, the opera of his dihut, Fornasari still 
commanded interest and applause. And thus the early 
season, with the pretty ballets of "Catarina" and 
" Eoline," ran on to its allotted term, with a certain 
measure of prosperity, satisfactory to both public and 
director, in spite of the growls of the opposition. The 
arrival of the great stars of the opera of that date, 
Grisi, Mario, and Lablache, duly took place for the 
season after Easter. 

With these, then, commenced the resumption of the 
usual repertoire, and, as has before been stated, the 
season sped on prosperously to the end. There was 
little to call for remark in these performances beyond 
the notice of a customary success, and the ready 
applauses bestowed on the familiar operas. Grisi, Mario, 
and Lablache appeared, with all honours, in "I 
Puritani," which was followed by " Don Giovanni," 
"La Sonnambula," "II Barbiere," "Norma," "Don 
Pasquale," "La Gazza Ladra," "La Prova," "II 
Matrimonio Segreto," " Lucia di Lammermoor," and 
" Anna Bolena." Two novelties alone, in the operatic 
history of the season, call for more especial mention. 
On Tuesday the 12th of March, " I Lorabardi," another 
opera by Signor Verdi, was given for the first time, with 
the names of Grisi, Mario, and Fornasari, and was illus- 
trated by scenery and dresses, which at this period were 
considered unsurpassed. Here was again a success- 
nay, a great and noisy success — but yet a doubtful one. 
After the comparative unanimity with which " Nabucco" 
had been received, it seemed necessary for the forces of 



" I LOMBARDI." 149 

the opposition to recommence the attack against a school 
which now threatened to make its way with the town. 
Party spirit on the subject was again rife. Whilst, by 
the Anti-Verdians, " I Lombard!" was declared to be 
flimsy, trashy, worthless ; the Verdi party, and the ad- 
herents of the modern Italian school, pronounced it to be 
full of power, vigour, and originality. The one portion 
asserted that it was utterly devoid of melody — the other, 
that it was replete with melody of the most charming 
kind; the one again insisted that it was the worst 
work of the aspirant — ^the other, that it was the 
young composer's chef-d'osuvre. And in the midst 
of this conflict — so analogous to the old feud 
between the partizans of Gliick and Piccini — public 
opinion, as usual, seemed undecided and wavering, utter- 
ing its old formula of " Well ! I don't know !" The 
music, too, was weighed down by a rambling, ill-con- 
structed, uninteresting libretto ; and it is really difl&cult, 
under such conditions, to sunder the merit of the 
musical " setting " from the demerit of the text. " I 
Lombardi," however, was played frequently, and even to 
crowded houses. 

The other venture was an opera huffa of Donizetti's 
early time, " Don Gregorio," the libretto of which was 
founded on a French vaudeville. The music was light 
and sparkling, and the selection had been made to afford 
the great Lablache the opportunity of appearing in a 
new bufio part ; one, too, in which he had been received 
with delight in Paris. But matter for attack was made 
out of this piece forthwith. The unfortunate opera 
buffa (capitally sung and acted by Lablache, Mario, 
Fornasari, and Madame Castellan), was doomed to exe- 
cration. "Desecration of the stage," "insult to the 



150 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

subscribers," " disgraceful buffoonery/' were among the 
phrases launched against it with the force of a catapult. 
And so, "Don G-regorio," with all Lablache's racy humour, 
could not hold its ground. 

Meanwhile the ballet had been struggling to maintain 
its wonted rivalry with the operatic department of the 
theatre. Lucille Grahn had been provided with her 
own ballet ("composed expressly for," &c., &c.), at the 
commencement of the season, in " Catarina." The 
turn of Cerito came next, in gorgeous fashion, 
with the great haUet d'acdon of the season, " Lalla 
Rookh." For this display of choreographic art, the 
most unusual and sumptuous preparations had been 
made. I even addressed a letter to the distinguished 
poet himself, Thomas Moore, entreating the aid of his 
valuable suggestions and advice, and was favoured with 
an interview, in which the poet expressed his views and 
his cordial interest in the new illustration bestowed on 
the creation of his fancy. 

" Lalla Rookh " was at length produced, for the benefit 
of Cerito, on the 11th of June. The simple story of 
" Lalla Rookh," although exquisitely romantic, was not, 
perhaps, well adapted for the expression of strong pan- 
tomimic action, however suited it may have been 
for choreographic display and gorgeous accessories. In 
both these respects everything had been done to ensure 
success. Perrot had surpassed himself in invention and 
arrangement, and the management had been " regard- 
less of expense" in putting the ballet on the stage. 
" Lalla Rookh " was, accordingly, an important event of 
the season ! Another was the arrival of the Taglioni, 
who had hesitated, wavered, and finally consented to 
take one more " last farewell " on the boards of Her 



" PAS DES DRESSES." 151 

Majesty's Theatre. She did come, and bounded once 
again upon that stage in the " Gitana." Now again the 
opposition was in full force. The future acolytes of 
Covent Garden declared her "a wreck of what had 
been," — while admirers still hailed her as " untouched 
by time." The truth lay, of course, between the two 
extreme opinions. But, at all events, Taglioni became 
and remained an attraction to the theatre, and conse- 
quently a source of 'emolument to the establishment. 
Her powerful aid was fully felt in a new pas, that was 
intended to rival the celebrated pas de quatre of the pre- 
ceding season. The glories of that famous group were 
not to be surpassed, it is true, or even equalled. But 
the pas des deesses, combining the attractions of Tag- 
lioni, Cerito, and Lucille Grahn, produced in a diver- 
tissement, called " Le Jugement de Paris," was never- 
theless one among the " great sensations " of the year ; 
was chronicled in enthusiastic terms, and pictured 
all over London, insomuch that its renown proved 
scarcely inferior to that of its more commanding pre- 
cursor. 

Altogether the season of 1846 fully maintained the 
\oitj prestige of Her Majesty's Theatre, and its financial 
results were most satisfactory. 

It had not been exempt, however, from the usual im- 
portunities in "influential quarters." Indeed, demands 
for the engagement or re-engagement of singers or 
dancers, demands for the loan of singers for concerts,, 
and demands for favours, great or small, are the inevi- 
table concomitants of opera management. Perhaps 
fewer of these interferences than had been experienced 
in the previous season, were endured in 1846 ; and thus 
far the wheels of the establishment rolled more smoothly 



152 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA, 

along. Still it is not to be supposed that the season 
could pass unmarked by its "row." 

On Tuesday the 20th of May, a regular kneute arose 
in the theatre, which seemed to rival all former dis- 
plays of the kind. The pretext for this vulgar riot 
was an apology which had been circulated for Mario's 
hoarseness, and for the non-appearance of Cerito, who 
was to have danced in the "Ondine," for which ballet 
" Catarina," with Lucille Grahn, was substituted. At 
these announcements a storm of displeasure broke forth, 
which lasted in full force for the whole evening. Thus 
much must, however, be said for the malcontents, that, 
although on this occasion the "indispositions" hap- 
pened to be genuine, the same public had been so often 
gulled by the whims and caprices of great artists who 
had trifled with their indulgence, that they could believe 
in theatrical illnesses no longer. 

No more serious consequences followed upon this 
" row," than angry commentaries in all the papers, from 
thundering Times to facetious Punch. Among the 
unusual notabilities who were present in the audience 
portion of the house on the occasion of the riot, were the 
King and Queen of the Belgians; the celebrated 
Ibrahim Pacha, of Egypt, and the Baboo Dwarkanauth 
Tagore, who, up to his death (which occurred in the 
same year), was not only an assiduous frequenter of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, but a personal friend of its 
manager. The name of Dwarkanauth Tagore reminds 
me of a remark which he once made in the course of a 
desultory conversation. Nettled by the difficulties that 
had been occasioned by some capricious prima donna or 
danseuse, I referred to the transgression of Eve as the 
origin of all the tumults in the world, " Ah !" said the 



JENNY LIND. 153 

Baboo, " that's your doctrine !" — implying that his own 
theological convictions were of a less ungallant kind. 

The season was now over, and yet some of the most 
arduous labours of the year were but commencing. 
Indeed this was a momentous crisis for the theatre. No 
doubt could be longer entertained of the speedy esta- 
blishment of a second Italian Opera House. Well-in- 
formed papers stated, " upon the best authority," the 
amount of capital laid down for the enterprise ; and, 
from time to time, recorded the enormous preparations 
going on for the restoration and embellishment of Covent 
Garden Theatre. A struggle for life or death obviously 
was at hand, and every nerve had to be braced to wage 
the struggle effectively. 

For some time past, I had been inclined to secure the 
services of the "Swedish Nightingale," Mademoiselle 
Jenny Lind, whose fame was now ringing through Gei-- 
many. But Mr. Bunn, who had established an English 
Opera at Drury Lane, had been already in the field. 
Early in the spring of 1845, this enterprising manager 
had offered Mademoiselle Lind, then at Berlin, an ad- 
vantageous engagement at his theatre ; and the young 
prima donna had signed with him a contract, which, 
some months later, she nevertheless declined to fulfil. 
Learning the secondary position of Mr. Bunn's theatre, 
she repented her imprudence, protested that she had 
been taken by surprise, and that she had finally signed in 
haste in an interval between her appearances on the stage, 
not knowing all the circumstances of the case ; also alleg- 
ing that she was unable, at so short a notice, to learn 
the English language sufficiently well to sing in it. 

Unable, in the face of the impending opposition, to 
count upon the re-engagement of those principal singers 



154 EEMINTSCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

who formed the "front rank," I now turned my atten- 
tion towards another direction, and naturally sought to 
secure for myself a "star" of such magnitude as Made- 
moiselle Jenny Lind. In a correspondence with Meyer- 
beer, at Berlin, in 1846, 1 had already enlisted the good 
offices of that illustrious composer, to try and engage 
the favourite Swedish prima donna. In the same cor- 
respondence, by the way, I expressed a desire to engage 
Tamberlik, a tenor singer, then unknown in England. 
When I made my proposition to Mademoiselle Lind, the 
young singer, little skilled in the difficulties of stage en- 
gagements, and alarmed at the possible embarrassments 
arising out of her contract with Mr. Bunn, wavered, 
hesitated, procrastinated, and seemed inclined, after a 
while, rather to run away from than to approach that for- 
midable London, which appeared to her a quicksand, 
replete with dangers. The " Swedish Nightingale," in 
short, was evidently a "shy bird," difficult to lure into 
any manager's net. 

Thus it will be seen that the autumnal labours 
of 1846 were fraught with doubt and anxiety. I had, 
however, laid out lures for other song birds ; and as 
rumours had been rife that the Countess Eossi, once the 
darling of London as Mademoiselle Sontag, had 
thoughts of returning to the stage, with all her charms 
and graces and artistic powers unimpaired, I had 
written to her in the month of July, offering her, on her 
own terms, an engagement on the stage of her former 
glories — " cette scene ou vous avez acquis tant de gloire, 
et laiss6 des souvenirs imperissables." This, unfor- 
tunately, never reached the lady, who was absent on a 
journey. It was not until two years afterwards that the 
prize was won. "With Madame Viardot negociations 



THE COMING TRIAL. 155 

were likewise opened, but did not succeed, on account of 
the exigencies of her rSpertoire. Out of three sopranos, 
therefore, not one it seemed was likely to be secured. 

With the clouds darkening the horizon of the future, 
and threatening a coming storm, I anxiously " trimmed 
my sails," and kept watch for any favourable breeze which 
might haply waft me into port. One encouraging cir- 
cumstance was, that at the very announcement of the 
hostile opposition, influential friends had gathered thickly 
around me, tendering aid and sympathy, and each 
bidding me be " of good courage," Among the many 
letters that were showered on me, one from the late 
Lady Blessington ran thus : " I, for one, do not tremble 
for the result to you. Your friends will never forsake 
you for any other attraction, however great. The locale 
will, in itself, be a serious objection to the success of the 
new establishment, &c., &c. ;" and again, the Duke of 
Leinster, always one of my best and truest friends, says : 
" I_have heard that Monsieur Persiani has taken Covent 
Garden, for the performance of Italian operas. From 
the liberal manner in which you have conducted Her 
Majesty's Theatre, I feel that you ought to be sup- 
ported." In this same strain wrote others among the 
subscribers. But the " situation " was indubitably 
a serious one; full of grave portent, and uncertain 
issue. 



156 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Autumn of 1846 — Rise of the rival opera at Covent Garden — Se- 
cession of the leading Artists from the " Old House " — ^Difficul- 
ties of organising a new Company — The Orchestra broken up in part 
by the change of Conductor — ^Engagement of Mademoiselle Jenny 
Lind as prima donna at Her Majesty's Theatre — Expectations afloat 
relative to a new Opera by Dr. Felix Mendelssohn — Obstacles to the 
appearance of Jenny Lind — Season of 1847 — Contract with Mr. 
Bunn — Objections raised by the Authorities to the production of 
the Opera of " Robert le Diable " — How surmounted — The opening 
night — Gardoni — Rosati in a new Ballet. 

The excitement which prevailed previously to the 
opening of Her Majesty's Theatre for the season of 1847, 
was unparalleled. Probably, since the days of the great 
Gluck and Piccini feuds in Paris — when hostile camps 
were formed by the partisans of the rival composers, and 
national " schools," contended not only with pointed 
pens but with sharp swords — there had never been 
known such acrimony, such furious disputes, or such an 
unscrupulous paper war as marked the commencement 
of the operatic year of 1847 in London. The social 
manners of England in the middle of the nineteenth 
century were indeed different from those which prevailed 
in Paris during the great Gllick and Piccini feud. The 
battle was fortunately confined to words, spoken, written 
and printed, and there was no necessity to call for 
more trenchant weapons for the settlement of disputed 



RISE OF COVENT GARDEN OPERA. 157 

points than those wielded by. the powerful hands of the 
great legal combatants of the day. It was, neverthe- 
less, a stormy period, in which that mighty JEolus, the 
press, sent forth winds from all quarters — the loudest 
and strongest blasts being blown by those who thought 
that the surest means of conducting their own newly- 
rigged bark into prosperous waters would be to sink the 
good ship riding at anchor under the old colours. Of 
the violent statements, counter-statements, bitter asser- 
tions, and hostile denunciations which characterized the 
violence of the elements in these regions, some account 
will be given in its due place. 

It is almost needless to state, that the loud wrangle 
was occasioned by the secession of the members of the 
vieille garde, hitherto the chief supporters of Her 
Majesty's Theatre in the eyes of the public, but at the 
same time the chief enemies in secret of my manage- 
ment. The secession was headed by Signor Costa, the 
conductor, who was followed by Mario and Grisi, and 
the names of Persiani and Tamburini were enrolled ; 
the two latter considering that the slight of being no 
longer engaged at the original opera-house was a wrong 
to be avenged. In other words, it was occasioned by 
the establishment, under circumstances of unusually 
conflicting rivalry and ill-founded bitterness, of the oppo- 
sition house, " The Royal Italian Opera at Covent 
Garden Theatre." This speculation (ostensibly, at 
least) was directed by Signor Persiani, known as an 
unsuccessful composer, and husband of the celebrated 
prima donna, who provided the funds, the artists singing 
at lower rates of salary, to assist the common cause. 

Whether Art, as a field for commercial enterprise, 
should be brought within the operations of free-trade. 



158 REMmiSCENCES OF THE OPEBA. 

whether an unlimited number of speculators should be at 
liberty to establish any dramatic or operatic institution 
at their own risk, is not a question to be entered upon 
here. The history of the designs of a -certain coterie of 
artists to obtain supreme power over the conduct of 
Italian operatic afiairs in this country, has been followed 
step by step. It may be sufficient to add, that the 
ends and aims of this coterie were apparently attained 
by their transfer from the old house to the new lyric 
establishment. How far they were really attained, it is 
beside my purpose to inquire. Neither can I follow the 
fortunes of the rival opera, excepting as they affect 
more or less those of Her Majesty's Theatre. 

The seceders had departed, to enjoy their triumph as 
best they might. Madame Grisi and Signor Mario had 
signed their engagement with the new establishment, 
without giving me any notice whatever. Signor La- 
blache, who had throughout protested against the 
schemes which he knew to be on foot, and thrown all the 
weight of his influence into the scale against the designs 
of his younger colleagues — Lablache, we say, remained 
staunch to the last to the theatre with which his fame 
in this country had been so intimately associated. 

Many members of the orchestra had yielded to the 
persuasions of their old (and it may be added, cherished) 
conductor, Signor Costa, and had followed their leader 
of many years in his new enterprise — just as a band of 
condottieri might in the middle ages have followed an 
admired captain, who had taken service under a new 
sovereign. Some of the instrumental artists, however, 
remained true to their colours. Two of these an- 
nounced their intention of remaining, in letters addressed 
to the public papers, wherein they protested against 



VIOLENCE OF THE OPPOSITION. 159 

the moral constraint that had been put upon them, a 
protest which elicited angry rejoinders from other 
writers, who had devoted themselves entirely to the 
service of the new establishment. That the question 
was not one of Free Trade versus Monopoly — that the 
cause was not in reality that of Art — was more than 
sufficiently shown by the marked partisanship and 
acrimony which distinguished the writings of the sup- 
porters of the second Italian opera. These fell thick 
upon the public from the very commencement of the 
year 1847 ; and in this spirit every previous announce- 
ment or preliminary notice concerning the ensuing 
season of Her Majesty's Theatre was immediately assailed 
by allegations, denunciations, and counter-statements, 
which even Touchstone must have pronounced tanta- 
mount to the "lie direct." 

Two of the principal announcements, made in the 
interests of Her Majesty's Theatre, respectively referred 
to the engagement of Mademoiselle Jenny Lind, the 
celebrated " Swedish Nightingale," and to the composi- 
tion of an opera by the famous composer. Dr. Felix Men- 
delssohn, expressly for Her Majesty's Theatre, an opera, 
founded upon the subject of Shakspeare's " Tempest," 
with a libretto from the pen of Monsieur Scribe. Both 
these reports were denied with singular acrimony by the 
Covent-Gardenite sharpshooters of the pen — and yet 
both were substantially true. 

Mademoiselle Jenny Lind had signed an engagement 
with me (at Darmstadt) on the 17th of the October 
previous (1846). This fact was unquestionable. But 
the position of the celebrated prima donna with respect 
to this engagement was fraught with complications, some 
of them hazardous to herself, and certainly perplexing to 



160 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the manager. In order to explain this precarious 
position of affairs, it will be necessary to refer back to 
events remote from the present date, and briefly touched 
upon in the last chapter. 

For some years the reputation of this extraordinary 
singer had been growing in Europe, until it had assumed 
such proportions as to excite unbounded curiosity in 
the musical world. Not only in her own country, but 
in Germany, Jenny Lind was already esteemed the great 
musical phenomenon of the day ; and in the winter of 
1844-5 she was singing at the Berlin Opera. She was 
a great popular favourite at the Prussian capital, and 
included among her warmest admirers the great com- 
poser, Giacomo Meyerbeer, one of the most fastidious 
and difficult of cognoscenti, now, alas! no longer amongst 
us. He had written expressly for her the opera of " Das 
Feldlager von Schlesien " (" The Camp of Silesia.") This 
work, I may observe, was afterwards re-modelled, and in 
part re-composed, in order to meet the requirements of the 
French stage, as the still more celebrated "ifetoileduNord." 

It was but natural, then, that an active and enter- 
prising manager like Mr. Alfred Bunn (at that time 
lessee of Drury Lane Theatre, where he had endeavoured 
to establish an English Opera), should have conceived 
the hope of alluring the "Swedish Nightingale " to his 
establishment for the winter season of 1845. Early 
in 1845 Mr. Bunn accordingly repaired to Berlin, and 
laid close siege to the popular singer, with the design of 
persuading her to make an engagement with him. For 
a long time the lady was coy and unwilling to consent, 
and was at last only "surprised," as she was wont her- 
self to say, into putting her signature to his bargain. 
It was between the acts of an opera in which she was 



CONTRACT WITH ME. BUNN. 161 

performing that she was invited to the box of the Eng- 
lish ambassador, adjoining the stage, and there she found 
the London manager, who held the proposed contract 
ready in his hand. Urged, it has been said, by the in- 
fluential counsels of the ambassador, as well as by the 
entreaties of Mr. Bunn (then about to leave for Eng- 
land), wholly ignorant of the real state of operatic affairs 
in London, tempted by a most liberal offer, and having 
no one to consult, the fair singer took the pen into her 
hand, and signed (not, however, without grave mis- 
givings) that unfortunate contract, which was destined 
to produce a concatenation of difficulties, embarrass- 
ments, and wearisome contests, during the following 
three years. It is due to the memory of Mr. Alfred 
Bunn to state that the terms of his contract were 
exceedingly advantageous to the lady. She would 
have been higher paid than she had ever been before 
for an equal number of performances ; and the 
ambassador was justified in the opinion which he 
is understood to have .expressed, that Mademoiselle 
Lind would consult her own interest in closing 
with Mr. Bunn's liberal offers. Scarcely was the 
deed done when it was bitterly regretted. One of 
Mr. Bunn's original stipulations had been, that Mademoi- 
selle Lind should sing in English the " Feldlager von 
Schlesien," which was to be translated into the language 
for that purpose. Mistrustful of her powers of acquiring 
the foreign tongue, mistrustful of herself, ill-satisfied with 
all the circumstances of the connection, the lady sought 
to avoid the fulfilment of her rash and hasty promise- 
Circumstances soon arose to increase her uneasiness. 

In the autumn of the same year (1845), the now 
widely celebrated cantatrice was delighting the public of 

M 



1 62 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Frankfort by her talent, when accident threw her in the 
way of an English lady, closely allied to a Swedish 
family with whom she had been intimate at Stockholm. 
In the course of conversation, Mademoiselle Lind became 
aware that the true and fitting arena for her talent in 
London was the stage of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
Although far from sanguine as to her own success in 
England, she was at least anxious to liberate herself 
from an engagement contracted hastily and under an 
erroneous impression ; and her newly-acquired friend 
was shortly afterwards invested by her with full powers 
to treat with Mr. Bunn for a release from her eon- 
tract. Negociations were consequently opened with Mr 
Bunn, who, far from showing himself at all unreasonable, 
proposed at first the apparently moderate condition that 
Mademoiselle Lind should pay him either the sum of 
£500, as a forfeit for breach of contract, or £300, 
coupled with the promise to sing for him one night at 
his theatre gratis. These terms were considered so ac- 
ceptable by the friend of the fair singer, that their rati- 
fication by Mademoiselle Lind was confidently expected. 
Unfortunately, the young lady, ignorant, it may be 
presumed, of the ways of the world, and of her own real 
position, replied only by a letter addressed to the 
manager of Drury Lane, in which she appealed to his 
" generosity " to grant her an unconditional surrender 
of the contract : urging that in an unguarded moment 
an engagement had been extorted from her of which 
she now saw the imprudence, and putting it to him 
as a man of honour and feeling to release her from her 
bond. Such a proposition was manifestly untenable ; 
and by this ill-advised step on the part of Mademoiselle 
Lind, the negociations which had been conducted in so 



ENGAGEMENT OF MADEMOISELLE LIND. 163 

amicable and promising a manner on behalf of the 
prima donna necessarily terminated. 

The period fixed by Mademoiselle Lind's- engagement 
with Mr. Bunn having passed away, the affair had 
become only a question of damages. In October, 
1846, I made more than one attempt to secure the 
services of the celebrated Swedish Nightingale ; but these 
attempts were made in vain. The young singer had 
conceived so inordinate a dread of Mr. Bunn's vengeance, 
and of his intentions to persecute her with newspaper 
attacks and other means of annoyance, on account of 
the " breach of promise," that she could not overcome 
her repugnance to visit the shores of England. Still I 
did not despair, and following Mademoiselle Lind from 
Frankfort to Stuttgardt, and thence to Darmstadt, I at 
last succeeded in prevailing on the coy songstress to 
contract an engagement at my theatre. Here I had to 
employ all my best ability. Besides holding out to her 
the most brilliant prospects both of fame and fortune, 
I went so far as to undertake to bear any loss that might 
fall upon her in the event of a law-suit with Mr. Bunn. 

The terms of this engagement were far superior to 
any hitherto offered to the celebrated singer. She was 
offered 120,000 francs (£4800) for the season, reckoned 
from the 14th of April to the 20th of August, besides 
a house free of charge, and a carriage and pair of 
horses to be at her disposal ; a further sum of £800, 
should she be inclined to pass a month in Italy, for study 
or repose, prior to her dehut at Her Majesty's Theatre ; 
lastly, the liberty to cancel her engagement if, after her 
first appearance on the boards and her success falling 
short of her expectations, she felt disinclined to continue 
her performances. 

M 2 



164 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

It may be added, that the engagements between the 
contracting parties were conducted under the auspices of 
the great composer Mendelssohn, a man not only of 
tried probity and honour, but of excessive delicacy in 
all such matters. This eminent musician took the live- 
liest interest in the prima donna, and remained her 
staunch and valued friend till his death in 1847, 
Thus I had every reason to feel myself secure in the 
possession of a " star" whose fame and attraction might 
compensate me for the loss sustained by the secession of 
Madame Grisi, which was now certain to take place. 

Early in the following year (1847), however, letters 
which appeared in the London newspapers proved that 
Mr. Bunn, though he could not hope to secure the can- 
tatrice for his own theatre, was resolved at all events 
to frighten her from appearing at any other. The 
manager of Drury Lane Theatre published a copy of a 
missive despatched by him to Mademoiselle Lind at 
Vienna, in which, after stating that he, in common with 
others, had little faith in any prospectus issued by Mr. 
Lumley, he went on to say : " I do not believe you have 
signed any but a conditional engagement with the 
manager of Her Majesty's Theatre ; deeming it impossi- 
ble that an artist of such celebrity and character could 
visit this country, liable to the consequences of two 
attested contracts, and prepared to forfeit the first for 
another and a larger offer subsequently held out."* 

To this, as conclusive evidence of the impossibility of 
Mademoiselle Lind appearing in the Haymarket, was 

* This was not stiictly the fact ; the contract -with Mr. Bunn 
being broken, and the time expired, there was no ground for 
charging Mademoiselle Lind with having broken it for the sake of 
a more lucrative offer. 



JENNY LIND COMES NOT. 165 

appended a letter from the lady, dated as far back as 
October, 1845, in which she stated that the afiair 
with Drury Lane would prevent her appearing at 
Her Majesty's Theatre. The publication of these 
letters was considered sufficient by the hostile papers 
(ever anxious for the future interests of the new Italian 
Opera at Covent Garden), to falsify the announce- 
ments made in behalf of Her Majesty's Theatre ; and 
they even ventured to assert that the name of Made- 
moiselle Lind would in a few days " doubtless appear in 
the Drury Lane bills, officially." 

It must be admitted, that, in announcing the name of 
Mademoiselle Jenny Lind as mj prima donna for the 
ensuing season in my prospectus, I was not without just 
causes of apprehension and uneasiness. The stake was 
a great one. The fortunes of the theatre, in the face of 
the threatened rivalry, depended upon the successful 
appearance of the " Swedish Nightingale." It had been 
arranged between Mademoiselle Lind and myself that 
her dehut should take place in Meyerbeer's opera of 
" Eobert le Diable," in her favourite part of Alice. 
The work being new to the theatre, extensive prepara- 
tions had to be made. The full score was procui'ed, 
parts were cast, new scenery was painted, and new 
dresses were prepared ; and of these operations Made- 
moiselle Lind, who was fulfilling a winter engagement at 
Vienna (where she was the idol of the public, caressed 
by the Court and the society of the Austrian capital), 
was duly apprized. But the lady "made no sign,'-' 
Time rolled on. The commencement of the season was 
imminent — but still no sign ! And thus matters re- 
mained when the theatre actually opened its portals. 

The other announcement, first put forward by 



166 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

papers supposed to be cognisant of the fact, and after- 
wards repeated in the prospectus for the coming season, 
but strenuously and acrimoniously contradicted by the 
hostile party, referred to the composition of an opera 
founded on " The Tempest " of Shakespeare, by Men- 
delssohn, " expressly for Her Majesty's Theatre." In 
making this announcement to my subscribers, as may be 
seen from my correspondence with the great composer, 
I was as fully borne out by legitimate expectations as 
in my promise of Mademoiselle Lind's appearance. 

Dr. Mendelssohn had long had " The Tempest " in 
view as a subject for operatic treatment. When, after 
my first attempt to engage Mademoiselle Lind, in 1846, 
I made a rapid journey to Berlin, I took an excursion 
to Leipzic, where I dined with Mendelssohn and his 
family, and afterwards went with them to the theatre. 
He then told me that he had in his possession a scenario 
of " The Tempest," which did not please him, adding, 
" Scribe is the only man who could treat this subject 
suitably for music." I do not refer to this conversation 
as affording a sufficient reason for announcing Men- 
delssohn's " Tempest " in the prospectus. A letter from 
the great composer, dated November 1st, 1846, and 
treating of the engagement of Mademoiselle Lind, in a 
friendly spirit to both parties, contained the following 
passage, relative to the proposed libretto of Scribe upon 
the subject of " The Tempest " :— 

" When I think of it," writes (in English) the illus- 
trious composer, " I wish January had arrived and the 
libretto with it, and that I could go on writing already. 
If you do not send it later than the new year, I hope I 
might still be ready in time, and I begin even now to 
arrange my affairs accordingly." On the 2nd of De- 



MENDELSSOHN'S OPERA. 167 

cember, 1846, he again writes — " A man like Scribe, 
with a subject like ' The Tempest/ must produce some- 
thing extraordinary, something which I should feel 

happy and proud to combine my music with I 

need not tell you that I shall set all other occupations 
aside, if I only see the possibility of finishing it in 
time — whether I may have it at new year or not." On 
the 19th of January, 1847, Dr. Mendelssohn announces 
the receipt of the libretto from Scribe, but feels now the 
" responsibility " of finishing the opera in time. He 
adds, however, " I shall try to do it, try with all my 
heart, and as well as I can." It is only on the 21st of 
February — ^long subsequently to the issuing of my pro- 
spectus, subsequently also to the imperative denials 
and contradictions of the parties hostile to my interests, 
to the effect that my representation as to an arrange- 
ment with Mendelssohn for an opera at Her Majesty's 
Theatre was " mere fabrication," — that the composer 
expresses his conviction of the impossibility of his 
finishing the work " in time for the season which has 
now begun." He attributes, however, this frustration 
of design more to the " great want of sympathy " he 
feels " with the second part of the opera, as it now 
stands," than to the pressure of time. He announces 
his intention of being in London in the April following, 
and adds, " Should I have composed something till then 
which might be of any use to you, I should be truly 
happy in proving to you, more than by mere words, how 
sincerely I wish you success." In a previous letter 
moreover, dated the 4th of February, he refers to the 
newspaper announcements which have appeared, and 
says, " I still hope to confirm them by the final result, 
if I possibly ean," and " I think it desirable (as well for 



168 REMINISCENCES OF THE OrEIU. 

you as myself) that, your friends should say, whenever 
the opportunity for doing so naturally presents itself, 
that the opera of ' The Tempest' is to be produced this 
season, if finished in time." 

For the hindrances which eventually arose — hin- 
drances caused by the composer's inability to " re- 
concile " himself to the second part of the opera, and by 
" the determination expressed by the author of the 
libretto to adhere to his portion of his work," I could not 
be held in any way responsible. It is clear, at the same 
time, from the correspondence with Monsieur Scribe, 
that the author of the libretto v,'as willing to modify his 
plan and efiect several changes in order to meet the 
views of the composer, much as he might wish to defend 
the dramatic propriety of his own conceptions. It is 
evident, however, from this singular and interesting cor- 
respondence (into which, unfortunately, it would lead 
us too far to enter in detail), that, much as composer 
and author might admire and respect the talent of 
each other, it was impossible to reconcile their peculiar 
idiosyncrasies, The German and French natures 
were in conflict. The more strictly logical and analy^ 
tical spirit of the former seemed strangely hypercritical 
to the latter. The facile imagination of the French' 
man, however fertile in scenic resources (as was evi- 
denced by the changes he proposed) found no response 
in the less flexible tenets of the German. Great in 
true poetical feeling as was the mind of Mendelssohn, 
he clung,, in this instance, to a rigidity of sequence 
which it was impossible for the French dramatist to 
admit or comprehend, in a subject of - ' fderie." And so 
the two went asunder. 

Statements, counter-statements, allegations, and refu- 



" RIVAL OPEllA HOUSES." 169 

tations on the two subjects mentioned above abounded 
in the newspapers, which, in certain instances, had 
adopted a rivalry as ferocious as that of the future 
Italian operas, long before the opening of the season. 
Party spirit ran high. Even the papers which asserted 
their impartiality with respect to what was familiarly 
entitled at the time " The Opera Fuss," almost invari- 
ably showed some sort of bias towards one side or the 
other. Among the mass of articles on the "Kival Opera 
Houses," which appeared at the time, a passage in a 
letter, which appeared in the Spectator, signed by " An 
Amateur," deserves quotation for its justness and truth: 

"An opera without G-risi," it says, " was an idea not to be ad- 
mitted. However, it is certain, not only that we shall see an opera 
in which that admirable artist will not figure, but also possible 
that the combination of talent to which her secession opens a 
passage may go far to indemnify the public for the absence of one 
so long and deservedly a favourite with them. One thing is clear 
that, complete as the performance of Mario and Grisi commonly 
was, we never could expect to vary the repertoire so long as the 
prima donna assoluta held sway on the Italian boards. A novelty, 
even in the vein congenial to her powers and taste, was accom- 
plished with difficulty, and by dint of urgency ; whilst novelties of 
a different school, or even revivals of disused compositions, not ex- 
actly suited to display the talents of Grisi to advantage, as she 
thought, were next to impracticable. She ruled the cast of the 
performances, therefore, at the same time obstructing the advent 
of rival soprani — for no first-rate singer could be induced to adven- 
ture a career in London whilst many leading parts in favourite 
operas, being in the possession of Grisi, were necessarily denied 
her," 

Few there were capable of reasoning so calmly on the 
different circumstances of the rivalry. The direct and 
violent hostility of one paper of the period — the " por- 
tentous mouth of Covent Garden," as it was popularly 
called — requires, from the circumstances which ensued, a 



170 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

record of its name. My published prospectus for the 
ensuing season met with such positive denials of its 
truth, and flat contradictions of its statements amount- 
ing to a charge of the " lie direct," in the now defunct 
Morning Chronicle, that I was compelled, in self-defence, 
to demand, through my solicitor, a retractation and a 
refutation from the editor of the paper, and even to 
threaten legal proceedings for defamation in case of a 
refusal. The articles of which I complained were those 
impeaching the veracity of the prospectus as regarded 
the engagement of Mademoiselle Jenny Lind, and treating 
the statement of an arrangement made with Dr, Mendels- 
sohn for a new opera as "a mere fabrication." Redress, 
however, was refused, save in so far as the editor pro- 
mised to lose no time in putting himself into communi- 
cation with Mademoiselle Lind and Dr, Mendelsohn, in 
order to ascertain the accuracy of the published asser- 
tions of the paper. To this equivocal concession a retort 
was sent by the solicitor of Her Majesty's Theatre, in 
the following terms : — " It is much to be regretted that 
you did not adopt this course of inquiry, and obtain the 
certain and correct information, which you now find to be 
necessary, before you permitted the pages of the Morning 
Chronicle to be the medium of charges against Mr. Lum- 
ley." I was obliged to be equally decided with a private 
gentleman of influence and position, who complained 
" that he had become a subscriber under false pretences, 
since he felt positively certain that Mademoiselle Lind 
had no intention whatever of appearing at the theatre." 
He was immediately met by the ofier of having his sub- 
scription cancelled, an offer with which he did not think 
fit to close. 

Great had been the turmoil of discussion, and great 



NOVELTIES FORTHCOMING, 1847. 171 

the acrimony of the new rival interests from the very be- 
ginning of the year, long prior to the appearance of the 
prospectus of Her Majesty's Theatre for the season. 
Louder still raged dispute and animosity when the pros- 
pectus was at last put forward. The " document " in 
question heralded a season of brilliancy and interest, 
well-fitted to compete with the attractions oflFered in the 
rival opera-house by the vieille garde, and even to 
run a course of triumph against all opposition. It con- 
tained the names of Jenny Lind, Madame Castellan, and 
Mademoiselle Sanchioli, with Madame Montenegro, and 
Mademoiselle Vietti as new acquisitions ; Signor G-ardoni 
— young, handsome, gifted with a lovely voice, and be- 
longing to a good "school," one who had been fought for 
by rival impresarii in Italy and France (and whose liberty 
had recently been purchased by myself from the Grand 
Opera at Paris, for the sum of 60,000 francs) was engaged 
to obviate as far as possible the regret of the subscribers 
for the loss of Signor Mario. To him was added Signor 
Fraschini, a tenore rohusto of great Italian repute. The 
faithful Lablache was to resume his proud position at 
Her Majesty's Theatre, along with the famous German 
basso, Staudigl, already popular on the London boards. 
Coletti was doubtfully promised at first, but was des- 
tined, shoi'tly after the opening of the theatre, to swell 
the ranks of a troop already strong in bass singers of 
fame. Besides these were announced Monsieur Bouche, 
the bass from the French Academie Royale, and Signor 
Superchi, a protege of the composer Verdi, said to be a 
baritone of merit. Signor Corelli stood on the list as 
second tenor. 

The operatic troop was apparently strong, and well 
fitted to sustain the threatened rivalry. Balfe still 



172 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPEEA, 

conducted the orchestra. The ballet was powerful as 
usual in its attractions, perhaps even more so. To 
the established favourites, Carlotti Grisi, Cerito, and 
Lucille Grahn, was added (now for the first time) the 
name of Kosati^a name of future popularity — followed 
by a host of minor celebrities, many of whom were quali- 
fied to take the highest rank on any other boards than 
those of a theatre where the renowned goddesses of the 
dance all reigned supreme. Hopes were likewise enter- 
tained of a re-appearance of Mademoiselle Taglioni. In 
addition, now, to the established names, among the men, 
of Perrot and St. Leon was that of Paiil Taglioni, a 
choreographe and dancer of celebrity and distinction. 
The ballet seemed in itself sufficient to ensure victory to 
the theatre. Among the acquisitions, new not only to 
the orchestra of Her Majesty's Theatre, but to this 
country, were recognised artists, such as MM. Piatti, 
Lavigne, and Anglois, who were certain to establish 
their fame permanently in England. 

Thus, amidst unusual discussion, turmoil, and agita- 
tion, the season of 1847 at length commenced on 
Tuesday, the 16th February, with Donizetti's opera,. 
" La Favorita," and an entirely new ballet, composed by 
Paul Taglioni, under the title of " Coralia." " LaFavor- 
ita," although not entirely new to England, having been 
already performed at London both in French and Eng- 
lish, was new to the Italian boards ; and in its Italian 
form had all the interest of a novelty. Perhaps, thus 
given as it was with singers far superior to any heard in 
it in this country, and with a far more correct and 
powerful ensemble, the opera gained in popular favour 
rather than lost, through the familiarity of opera-goers 
with its melodies. 



SANCHFOLT. 173 

Apart from the unwonted interest attached by all the 
friends and habitues of the long-cherished establishment, 
to the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre in face of the 
new opposition, considerable sensation was excited by the 
first appearance on the Anglo-Italian stage of Signor 
Gardoni. Much had been said of the strange adventures 
that had befallen the handsome and gentlemanlike young 
tenor during his brief musical career. His first appear- 
ance on the stage raised a battery of opera-glasses from 
every part of the house ; a murmur of gratified expecta- 
tion followed. The success of Gardoni on this occasion 
was undoubted. Both his principal solos, sung in the 
purest taste and with perfect feeling, were encored with 
enthusiasm. The attraction of his performance was felt 
by all. Voice, style, and expression were there. His 
talent as an actor was alone disputed j for these were 
already days when a singer, however great his merit as 
a vocalist, was expected (and justly, on the lyrical stage) 
to be a histrionic artist also. It became the fashion 
among some dilettanti to say that Gardoni was no actor. 
Still, even as an actor he was pleasing. His manner, his 
bearing, his feeling, his conception of parts were blame- 
less. He lacked only one element — power ; he was not 
capable of bursts of passion. 

Superchi, the new baritone, and Bouche, the new bass, 
were both favourably received. Mademoiselle San- 
chioli was considered to have " toned down " from that 
exuberance of passionate declamation which had been 
remarked during the previous season, and to have some- 
what improved in her art as a cantatrice. For pas- 
sionate earnestness her powers never could be doubted. 
" La Favorita," in short, was a decided success. 

The new ballet of " Coralia," cleverly adapted by M. 



174 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Paul Taglioni from La Motte-Fouqu6's well-known 
romance of "Undine," introduced Mademoiselle Rosati 
to the English ballet-stage. Both as dancer and panto- 
mimist she was hailed with applause, and established 
herself at once as a favourite. An easy rounded grace, 
combined with the requisite brilliancy of execution, con- 
stituted the merits of Rosati's style as a danseuse: as a 
pantomimist, she exhibited remarkable talent. The chore- 
ographic abilities of the maitre de ballet himself; the suc- 
cessful appearance of the sprightly Marie Taglioni, his 
daughter ; the ensemble of the acting, the story, the 
beauty of the scenery, and the lavish richness of the 
appointments, ensured for " Coralia " a triumphant 
reception which seemed to have restored for a time the 
Mici&nt prestige of the lately-discredited ballet-pantomime, 
once the delight of the Anglo-Italian stage. There 
could be no doubt that Her Majesty's Theatre had com- 
menced its new and dangerous season under unusually 
flattering auspices. Such an opening night of the pre- 
Easter period may be said to have been unknown in its 
annals. 



175 



CHAPTER XIV. 



Season of 1847 (Continued) — Performance on behalf of distressed Irish — 
Nino — Coletti — ^Fraschini's debut in " Lucia di Ijammermoor " — 
Doubts concerning the arrival of Jenny Lind — ^Measures adopted by 
the Director to overcome her hesitation — His journey to Vienna — 
Opening of the Royal Italian Opera, Covent Garden — Lucille Grahn 
— Prevalence of sickness among the Artists ; influenza — Certain 
Advent of Jenny Lind announced — Her arrival in England — Her 
first appearance as Alice in " Robert le Diable '' — Warm reception 
given to her — Unbounded applause at close of Performance. 



Although the public mind, as regarded the operatic 
season of Her Majesty's Theatre, was almost entirely 
absorbed with the anticipated advent of the eagerly 
expected singer, Mademoiselle Jenny Lind — an advent 
which, according to varied hopes or fears or interests or 
antagonisms, was considered certain, probable, possible, 
doubtful, or still altogether denied — the season previously 
to Easter sailed on pleasantly enough. Very early in 
the year it was enlivened by the excitement arising from 
a performance for the benefit of the " Distressed Irish." 
A committee of ladies met daily at my rooms in the 
Theatre, and co-operated with me in the arrangements 
for this beneficent performance. The proceeds, amount- 
ing to about £2000, were handed over to Lord John 
Russell, then Home Secretary, for distribution in Ireland; 
and the ladies forming the committee sent me a letter 



176 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

expressing their thanks for my kindness, and for the 
assistance afforded to them in the conduct of the affair ; 
signed by Lady Palmerston, Lady Clarendon, Lady 
Clanricarde, and Lady Ailesbury. On the evening of 
the benefit " All London " was present, from the Queen 
and Royal Family to the humblest inhabitant of the 
world of fashion who .could find a corner in the vast 
assemblage. " Nino " (" Nabucco ") followed, in ordeif 
to introduce Coletti, who appeared in the part of thfe 
maddened king (previously so effectively sustained by 
Fornasari), and was Avelcomed with enthusiasm. A 
Mademoiselle Fagiani, who made her dehut on the same 
occasion, acquitted herself respectably in the small part 
of " Fenena," by virtue of a sweet voice, notwithstahd- 
ing her nervousness as a novice. " Lucia di Lammer- 
moor," on the 9th of March, introduced Fraschini to the 
boards of the Italian Opera, in the character of Edgardo, 
and restored Madame Castellan, always an acceptable 
favourite. The tenore rohusto — the tenore della male- 
dizione, as he had been named by Rossini, in reference 
to the great energy with which he pronounced Edgardo's 
curse, was likewise hailed with acclamation on his first 
appearance. It was in parts demanding strength and 
energy that this singer, whose great Italian reputation 
had raised such expectations among English dilettante, 
most conspicuously shone. By these qualities he roused 
the enthusiasm of his audience, and thus formed a strik- 
ing contrast with the other new tenor of the season, the 
graceful and tender Gardoni. In the " Sonnambula " 
Gardoni heightened the favourable impression he had 
made on his first appearance; whilst in "Ernani," Fras- 
chini had an opportunity of exhibiting his more vigorous 
powers of passionate declamation. With Madame 



MORE HESITATION. 177 

Castellan in these operas, both the new singers 
achieved a success. A new divertissement, entitled 
" Thea," afforded both Eosati and Marie Taglioni oppor- 
tunities of winning lavish applause and fresh showers of 
bouquets from admiring aildiences. And thus the ante- 
Easter season, unusually filled with matters of interest, 
and unusually exciting in its programme, ran on to the 
end in its successful course, full of tokens of strength 
and vigour wherewith to maintain the struggle which 
laybefore the management of Her Majesty's Theatre, in its 
impending duel with the Covent Garden Opera. But in 
spite of the interest and excitement created, the cry was 
still " Jenny Lind !" and the most eager questions were, 
" When will she come ?" and " Will she come at all ?" 
To explain these perplexing questions, to which no 
decided answer was at that time forthcoming, it is now 
necessary to go back somewhat in the history of events. 
Early in March, my uneasiness as to the ultimate 
intentions of my prima donna, was once more awakened 
by indications of hesitation on her part, and renewed 
objections to make her appearance in England, founded 
on her dread of confronting the hostility of Mr. Bunn, 
sedulously kept alive by the Covent Garden party to whom 
in fact Mr. Bunn's rights had been assigned. In reply 
to repeated assurances that she had " nothing to fear," 
Mademoiselle Lind only protested that she could not 
start for England unless Mr. Bunn formally gave up the 
dreaded contract, and absolved her from all penalties. 
She had indeed been seriously assured that she would 
never be able to reach the doors of Her Majesty's 
Theatre unless guarded by a detachment of police. 
Again I reiterated my promises to bear her harmless 
against the consequences of an action ; still she gave no 

N 



178 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

signs of a "move." Indeed, in a letter dated from 
Vienna on the 28th of February and signed by the 
hand of "Jenny Lind," which had been published in the 
newspapers of the day, an offer had been made to pay 
over to Mr. Bunn the sum of £2000 (Mr. Bunn having 
originally proposed a forfeit of £500 only), upon the 
restoration by him of the signed contract. " As I shall, 
in any event, come to London," so ran this letter, " I 
should prefer coming with the consciousness of having 
done all that depended on me ; and I leave it to your 
choice and judgment whether you will * prefer this 
arrangement to a law-suit, from which you will probably 
derive nothing." To this proposal Mr. Bunn had 
returned no favourable answer ; the directors of Covent 
Garden, in order to carry on the war, having purchased 
his contract, with the right to make use of his name if 
occasion required. Whether, as it would seem probable, 
Mademoiselle Lind had formed an exaggerated notion of 
the power of the Drury Lane manager, and consequently 
of a possible hostile reception on the part of a London 
audience, or whether her hesitation arose from any other 
cause, she lingered on in a state of indecision which to 
me was most distressing. In this dilemma I had 
recourse to the lady friend who had, at a former stage 
of the affair, commenced a negociation on behalf of the 
young singer, and begged her " good offices." By 
chance, her brother, who had been on friendly terms with 
Mademoiselle Lind in Sweden, and who spoke Swedish with 
ease, had just arrived in London from Stockholm. This 
gentleman obligingly consented to proceed as " envoy" 
to Vienna, and to employ his influence in inducing 
the reluctant prima donna to accompany him back to 
London. 



OPENING OF THE " ROYAL ITALIAN." 179 

He started accordingly on this critical errand early 
in the month of March. The first news he transmitted 
to England was not reassuring. " Mademoiselle Lind 
was indisposed to quit Vienna, still putting forward her 
fears of Mr. Bunn as the cause of her reluctance." The 
mission seemed in danger of failure, and the fortunes of 
Her Majesty's Theatre mainly depending at this crisis 
on the appearance of the Swedish Nightingale, I 
became more and more uneasy. " Start yourself for 
Vienna, and endeavour to decide this wayward girl on 
accompanying you back to England," was the advice of 
the friendly intermediary. Inconvenient to the last 
degree as it was to quit the direction of the theatre 
even for a day, I saw the force of this advice — feeling 
that a juncture had arrived wherein personal energy 
could alone prevail. On the next night, at the opera, 
I entered (in evening costume of course) the box of my 
lady adviser. It was about ten o'clock. " I come," I 
said, " to bid you farewell. I have resolved to make 
the journey to Vienna. Pray say not a word to any one. 
In half an hour I shall be on my road." 

In this perplexing state matters remained, when, the 
theatre having closed for the recess, the time arrived 
for its reopening for the season after Easter. The 
theatre did accordingly reopen in my absence, on the 
10th of April. Meanwhile, an enormous advance had 
been made in the operations of the hostile camp. The 
"Royal Italian OperaCovent Garden" opened on Tuesday, 
the 6th of April, in spite of an effort made to pre- 
vent a catastrophe, so disastrous to the interests of the 
long-established Italian Opera. It had been proved by 
legal authority that, in consideration of certain mone- 
tary arrangements, a " privilege " had been granted to 

N 2 



180 EEMINISCENOES OF THE OPERA. 

the old " King's Theatre " for the " exclusive production 
in perpetuity of Italian Opera," and that " the value of 
this condition had been taken into account in the pur- 
chase of the theatre ;" moreover, that there was a 
stipulation in the same document to the effect that the 
patents of Drury Lane and Covent Garden, granted 
to secure a home for the English drama, "should 
never be exercised for the purpose of Italian Opera," 
But the age was one when it was the policy of Govern- 
ment to discountenance monopolies of every kind. The 
objection was overruled — Covent Garden, as I have 
said, opened four days before Her Majesty's Theatre; 
and to all appearance successfully, for, in addition to the 
powerful prestige of la vieille garde, consisting of Grisi, 
Mario, Tamburini, and Persiani, the dehut of Made- 
moiselle Alboni was triumphant. The crisis was evi- 
dently formidable. And where was Jenny Lind ? 

In her continued absence every available resource was 
put forward. The theatre reopened, as has been stated, 
on Saturday, the 1 0th of April. A new opera and a 
new soprano singer were both forthcoming on the oc- 
casion. The opera, given for the first time in this 
country, the " Due Foscari," of Verdi, and the singer, 
Madame Montenegro, a Spanish lady of good family, 
with a clear soprano voice of some compass, and an at- 
tractive person, pleased, without exciting any marked 
sensation. Coletti, in the character of the JDoge, one of 
his most famous parts, was, by general accord, pro- 
nounced to be an admirable, not to say a great artist ; 
whilst Fraschini, by his energy and power, contributed 
to the effect of the ensemble. The first appearance of 
Lucille Grahn, on the same occasion, added to the eclat 
of a brilliant reopening. But the rivalry was powerful, 



" WHERE IS JENNY LIND ?" 181 

and again the general question ran around, " Where is 
Jenny Lind?" 

It is a general truth, that however efficient a troup of 
artists may be, the expectation of a " bright particular 
star" about to rise in the horizon keeps a public in 
anxious suspense. Moreover, paterfamilias, who grudges 
the outlay, can put off his anxious wife and daughters 
with a promise to take them to the opera " when Jenny 
Lind comes." 

" I Puritani " followed, with Castellan and Gardoni. 
Lablache, the true and loyal, made his first appear- 
ance for the season on this occasion, and was received 
with a salvo of cheers and shouts which evidenced an 
appreciation of his fidelity to the old cause, besides that 
of his transcendent merits as an artist. Coletti, as 
Riccardo, added to the completeness of the cast, which 
was in all respects excellent. But not even this excel- 
lence was sufficient to answer the standing question, 
" Where is Jenny Lind?" A new hallet divertissement, 
" Orithea, ou Le Camp des Amazones," for Lucille 
Grahn, however beautifully placed upon the stage and 
executed, could not allay the fever of curiosity and ex- 
pectation. All seemed in abeyance. To add to the 
ticklish position of . affairs, the three prime donne, 
Castellan, Sanchioli, and Montenegro, all simultaneously 
fell sick and, on this occasion, of real illness. The in- 
fluenza was raging at the time. Madame Solari, a 
comjyrimaria, had to undertake the principal part in 
" I Due Foscari," in this dilemma. 

Castellan first returned "to the rescue" in "L'Elisir," 
wherein Gardoni sang deliciously, and Lablache took 
his part of Dulcamara ; the latter in himself a host. 
Cerito, who had arrived recently, Rosati, Lucille Grahn 



182 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

— all of them danced and did their best; yet, spite of all, 
clouds rested on the theatre. Hope "deferred" rendered 
audiences indifferent to the very best performances. But 
one thought occupied all minds in the operatic world : 
" Where was Jenny Lind?" No one could solve the 
enigma ! 

At last there came a gleam of light through the cloud. 
Late in the evening of the 15th April, I called unex- 
pectedly on " the lady intermediary," and startled her 
by my travel-worn and fatigued appearance. " What 
news ?" asked the lady, eagerly. " Good," answered I, 
composedly; "I left them at Strasbourg early this morn- 
ing (having journeyed post through the night), and 
pushed on alone. They will be here, I hope, to-morrow 
afternoon." My personal influence and remonstrances 
had fortunately carried all before them. 

On the morrow, the long-expected prima donna 
actually did arrive, alighting at the house of this 
lady, where she was also welcomed by her cherished 
friend, Felix Mendelsohn. The Doctor had come to 
England in order to superintend a performance of his 
"Elijah" at Birmingham, and, by a fortunate chance, 
was walking with the lady of the house near at hand at 
the moment of Mademoiselle Lind's arrival. The much- 
desired prize was then won! Was it? The Nightingale 
was " caught and caged," it is true ; but it did not 
necessarily follow that the caged bird would sing! 
Days passed by. The fatigued^nma donna was allowed 
time for repose, and no effort' was made to harass or 
worry her, although I was, naturally, "upon 
thorns." The Nightingale appeared on the evening of 
her arrival at Her Majesty's Theatre, in her friends' box, 
to which every opera-glass in the house was at once di- 



ANOTHER OBSTACLE. 183 

rected. Consequently all London knew that Jenny Lind 
was come ; and " all London " was on tiptoe with expec- 
tation. The young singer was shortly afterwards intro- 
duced to a few select acquaintances, and to Lablache, 
who encouraged her with kind words, and showed towards 
her an almost fatherly interest. But still she made no 
" move," fixed no day for her introduction to the stage, 
or for the commencement of the rehearsals which were 
to precede her performances. The opera-goers awaited 
(impatiently of course) the promised debut. The theatre 
all this while was comparatively deserted. All depended 
on the appearance of Jenny Lind. A chance conversa- 
tion aroused her to a sense of the critical position of the 
theatre and the consequences of her procrastination, 
which she no sooner understood than she said, " I will 
attend at the theatre on Monday next." From that 
moment all distrust and apprehension were given to the 
winds. Eehearsals were cheerfully and attentively fol- 
lowed up. The admiration bestowed on the perform- 
ance of Mademoiselle Lind, by the conductor (Mr. Balfe), 
the band, and her fellow artists (especially of Lablache), 
seemed to revive her courage. All was now in train, and 
the eventful night arrived. 

But before that night could arrive, another difiiculty, 
which I had not foreseen, had to be surmounted. A 
few days after Mademoiselle Lind's first appearance at 
rehearsal, I received an official communication from 
Lord Spencer, the then Lord Chamberlain, peremptorily 
prohibiting the representation of " Eoberto il Diavolo," 
though the work had been already performed by French 
and English operatic companies ; and a melo-drama, em- 
bracing all the incidents of its libretto, had been brought 
out at the Adelphi, shortly after its production at Paris. 



184 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

What was I to do ? To have told Mademoiselle Lind 
of the obstacle at such a moment would have been fatal, 
for she had set her heart on making her debut in the 
character of Alice, and would not have heard of any 
opera but " Eoberto." Nor was this predilection founded 
on mere caprice — ^for she had said to me, "If the emo- 
tion takes away my voice, I can at least show that I can 
act — and besides, the entree will give me a few moments 
to recover my self-possession." 

I called on Lord Spencer, renowned as a gallant naval 
officer, but evidently inexperienced in theatrical affairs, 
Eeferring to the subject of " Eoberto," he said : "Why, 
one might as well bring the devil and his horns on the 
stage at once;" as if the stage had not already been fre- 
quently occupied by " Faust," and his Mephistophehs, 
the " Frieschutz " and his Zamiel, "Don Giovani," with 
his troop of demons, serious and burlesqued. I ex- 
plained to him that by this novel act of authority he was 
passing a censure not only on his predecessors in office, 
but likewise on all the courts of Europe ; for which of 
them had not honoured Meyerbeer's chef d'ceuvre with 
its patronage ? At last, through the kind intervention 
of the late Mr. Anson, a man justly honoured with the 
confidence of the Court, I overcame all difficulties. 
" Eoberto il Diavolo " was duly licensed, and the events 
ful night arrived. 

Earely was ever seen such an excitement even at that 
focus of excitement — Her Majesty's Theatre. The crowd 
at the doors might have led to the suspicion of an emeute, . 
in a capital less orderly than London ; and the struggle 
for entrance was violent beyond precedent — so violent, 
indeed, that the phrase, " a Jenny Lind crush," became 
a proverbial expression. Nor was this crowd the result 



JENNY LIND'S D^BUT. 185 

of a hasty gathering. From an early hour in the after- 
noon, the Haymarket became so thronged as to be im- 
passable to pedestrians. As for the file of carriages, it 
seemed as interminable as it was dense. 

The brilliant appearance of the house inside was in- 
creased by the presence of the Queen and Prince Albert, 
the Queen Dowager, and Duchess of Kent, who had all 
come to witness the debut of Jenny Lind, 

On the entrance of the new prima donna as Alice, the 
welcome given to one who, though unknown, had already 
won renown, was unusually enthusiastic. For a few 
moments she appeared bewildered and " scared," but 
her self-possession returned. Her very first notes 
seemed to enthral the audience. The cadenza at the end 
of her opening air — the whole of which was listened to 
with a stillness quite singular — called down a hurricane 
of applause. From that moment her success was cer- 
tain. The evening went on, and before it ended Jenny 
Lind was established as the favourite of the English 
opera public. Voice, style, execution, manner, acting — 
all delighted. The triumph was achieved. 

At the end of the performance, the Queen, who 
during the entire evening had repeatedly manifested 
her extreme satisfaction, expressed to me her admira- 
tion in a tone and manner that showed how deep an 
impression had been made upon her. " What a beau- 
tiful singer !" " What an actress !" " How charming !" 
" How delightful !" Those were the exclamations that 
fell from the lips of Her Majesty, whom I had never be- 
fore seen thus moved to enthusiasm. 

If the interest in Mademoiselle Lind's debut could 
have been heightened, I should have said that it was 
increased by the first appearance of the celebrated 



186 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

German bass singer, Staudigl, on the Italian boards, in 
his famous part of Bertram. His success in this cha- 
racter (for which indeed he had been expressly en- 
gaged) was as great as it was merited, although his 
pronunciation of the Italian language was defective. 
He was proclaimed the Bertram of the Italian stage, as 
he had been of the German, Still it was impossible for 
him to occupy his merited position in the operatic 
" talk " of the day, when the public mind was wholly 
and exclusively absorbed by one object — Jenny Lind. 
Fraschini, in the part of Roberto, was, on the whole, 
satisfactory ; whilst Gardoni, in the minor character of 
Raimhaldo, was charming, according to his wont ; and 
Madame Castellan warbled the part of the Princess most 
melodiously. 

The music of " Eobert le Diable " was not wholly 
new to the London stage. It had already been given 
by English and French companies, but without ever 
creating that warmth of admiration which was considered 
due to the great work of Meyerbeer. In its Italian 
form it took its stand unequivocally, but the further 
record of its success must be reduced to the asser- 
tion that, the appearance of Jenny Lind proved a great 
and glorious triumph for the management. 



187 



CHAPTER XV. 

Season of 1847 (Continued) — Successful course of the Establishment, 
aided by the Popularity of the Swedish Nightingale — ^A new opera 
by Verdi — Not generally approved by the Public — ^Resumption of 
the old " Repertoire " — Unprecedented enthusiasm excited by Jenny 
Ldnd's performance — ^The Ballet — ^WeU sustained by first-rate .ASrtists 
— ^Departure of Jenny Lind — Regret of the Public — ^Trial of Bunn 
V. Lind adjourned — Doubtful success of Covent (xarden Season — 
Cordial support afforded to the Manager — ^Valuable Testimonial 
presented to him — FSte at the Director's Residence — Quality of the 
Company Invited — Noble and Artistic Melange — Close of the Season 
— ^My Departure for the Continent — ^My first impression of the young 
Prima Donna, Sophie Cruvelli, at Rovigo — Opinion of her Talent 
held by Rubini. 

I MAY assert without hesitation, while on the subject of 
Mademoiselle Lind, that the career of this great singer 
and extraordinary woman, throughout the whole of her 
operatic season of 1847, was attended by one unbroken 
series of triumphs. The numbers that literally stormed 
the doors of the theatre on every night of her perform- 
ances, were wonderfully great, especially when the 
extent of her engagement is recollected. This grand 
professional success was aided no doubt by the 
prestige thrown around the fair Swede by interest- 
ing details given to the public of her private life. 
The report of her unblemished character, of her un- 
bounded charities, and of her modesty — a modesty that 



188 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

seemed to guard her against the indulgence of personal 
vanity — added greatly to the favour with which she 
was received by the English public, and gave increased 
lustre to her professional reputation. On all sides, 
and from all classes in the country, she was met by 
flattering testimonials of esteem and admiration. She 
was courted by the aristocracy as much as she was 
caressed by her private friends. 

The Queen received her with marked attention. The 
Dowager Queen invited her to visit Her Majesty in 
private. Invitations, which she was as unwilling as un- 
able to accept, were showered on her by the English 
nobility. The late Duke of Wellington was most 
sedulous in his demonstrations of respect and admira- 
tion, and on one occasion invited her to his country seat, 
promising that " music should form no topic of the con- 
versation." But amid all the honours they lavished upon 
her, the shy prima donna invariably preferred the in- 
timacy of her choice private circle, and was glad to flee 
the flattering incense sought to be bestowed upon her, 
by escaping to the ^country house of the kind friend who 
had first welcomed her in London. There she would 
heartily enjoy a ride, or rural ramble ; and anon, seated 
among wild ferns and shaded by ancient beech-trees, she 
would study her new parts, the score laid open upon her 
lap. Every anecdote which transpired abroad, every 
detail which could be caught up, eagerly seized upon as 
it was by the " outside " public, contributed to throw a 
romantic halo about the name of the favourite prima 
donna. 

Great as was the excitement produced by the Alice 
of Jenny Lind, it was perhaps exceeded by her next 
performance. In the part of Amina, in " La Sonnam- 



"AMENA" AND "MARIA." 189 

bula," she surpassed all previous expectations. In sim- 
plicity, tenderness, and grace, in perfect impersonation, 
these qualities being combined with exquisite delivery of 
the music, she was universally declared to have beaten all 
her compeers " out of the field." Not only was she 
the Sonnamhula, but Amina was generally looked upon 
as the culminating point of her unprecedently successful 
season. 

Ably seconded by Gardoni, she stamped the part 
as her own, and threw a fresh charm over an opera, 
always beautiful, it is true, but yet "hackneyed" 
to the last degree. Scarcely less triumphant was she 
in her third character. " The worshippers of Jenny 
Lind — and their name is legion " — to quote the general 
phraseology of the newspapers of the day — " were sup- 
plied with fresh excitement by the appearance of the 
Swedish Nightingale in a new character — one in which 
she had been wonderfully successful on the Continent 
— ^that of Maria, in Donizetti's ' Figlia del Eeggimento.' " 
The music of this opera, one of Donizetti's lightest and 
prettiest compositions, had already been dished up by 
fi'agments to the English public in various forms, though, 
without much savour. On the boards of the Anglo-Italian 
stage, however, it seemed entirely new; the reminiscences 
of well-known melodies heightening, perhaps, rather 
than diminishing the zest with which the audience of 
Her Majesty's Theatre received the opera. The novel 
charm bestowed on it by such a " cast," and by an ad- 
mirable performance throughout of the music, estab- 
lished "La Figlia" at once in favour. The acting of Jenny 
Lind, as the simple-minded and impulsive Yivandiere, 
struggling against the trammels of conventional "fine- 
lady " life, again made a lively impression ; whilst the 



190 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

warmth and feeling with which she sang,* with won- 
derfully elaborate execution, one of her airs, estab- 
lished the character as another of Jenny's triumphs. 
In the same category can scarcely be classed the 
" Norma," which shortly followed, being first given by 
" Eoyal command," on the occasion of a state visit of 
the Queen to Her Majesty's Theatre, on Tuesday, the 
15th of June. Doubtless there was a great charm in the 
new version given to the character by the gifted young 
singer, who made an unextinguished love for the faith- 
less Pollione more conspicuous than the rage of the 
deceived and slighted woman — in the bursts of emotion, 
which were rather those of agonised reproach than of 
implacable revenge — in the mournfulness rather than 
the passion of her despair, and in the tender resignation 
of her self-sacrifice there shone the great artist. But the 
English public, ever loyal to their idols, had been accus- 
tomed to another delineation of the slighted Druid 
Priestess. It had long gazed with emotion upon the 
burning passion, the withering indignation, and the 
imposing grandeur of Grisi, and could not be taught to 
relish a new " treatment." The interesting picture of 
womanly devotion, womanly anxiety and suffering, even 
of womanly forgiveness, as painted by Jenny Lind, how- 
ever touching to behold, was evidently contrary to stage 
tradition. Dilettanti disputed, with psychological acu- 
men on both sides, as to the respective truthfulness of 
the rival impersonations of Grisi and Jenny Lind ; but 
the public remained comparatively unimpressed. The 
attempt, in face of a recognised and familiar type, was 
thought to have been a mistake. At all events, "Norma" 
could hardly be counted among Jenny Lind's unques- 
tionable triumphs. 



"camp de sil:^sie." 191 

Still, the avidity to witness all Mademoiselle Lind's 
performances not only remained undiminished, but even 
increased. The newspapers of the day teemed with 
descriptions of wild scenes of " crushing, crowding, 
squeezing ;" of ladies fainting in the pressure, and even 
of gentlemen " carried out senseless ;" of torn dresses 
and evening coats reduced to rags. Whatever opera was 
produced the choice seemed to be a matter of comparative 
insignificance, so long as the great "star" but appeared in 
the horizon. Overcrowded houses could not be crowded 
more. Nevertheless, I considered myself bound to 
fulfil, as far as possible, the announcements of the pro- 
gramme, by the production of an entirely new opera, 
"composed expressly for Her Majesty's Theatre," in 
which Mademoiselle Lind was to appear. 

The difficulties and unexpected hindrances which 
followed upon my announcement of the " Tempest," by 
Mendelssohn, have already been narrated. The great 
German composer had not wholly laid aside his intention 
of treating this inviting subject ; but having difiered 
with the librettist as to its construction, he found it 
impossible to complete his work for the current season. 
Ever since the engagement, signed by Jenny Lind at 
Darmstadt, I had been in correspondence with the 
celebrated Meyerbeer, relative to the performance of his 
" Feldlager von Schlesien " (Camp de Silesie), which 
opera had been expressly composed for her. To all my 
demands the maestro had cheerfully agreed, with the 
single stipulation that, in addition to Mademoiselle Lind, 
Staudigl should be engaged for the part of Peter, 
Staudigl (as has been seen) was already engaged, and had 
sung the part of Bertram. But again hindrances came 
in the way of the production of the " Camp de Silesie/' 



192 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

The composer was unable to visit London to superintend 
the rehearsals of the opera, as had been confidently 
anticipated ; and, as the season was wearing on, it 
seemed advisable at least to postpone the production of 
his last work. 

Of the expected new operas to be produced on the 
stage of Her Majesty's Theatre, that of Verdi alone 
remained available. For many years I had been in 
correspondence with the young Italian composer, for the 
purpose of obtaining from him a work destined for the 
London boards. An opera on the subject of "King 
Lear " had already been promised by Verdi, the prin- 
cipal part being intended for Sign or Lablache. But, on 
that occasion, the serious illness of the composer had pre- 
vented the execution of the design. Verdi now offered 
his " Masnadieri," composed upon the subject of 
Schiller's well-known play, " Die Eauber," and with this 
proposal 1 was obliged to close. On Thursday, July 
2nd, " I Masnadieri " (after wearying rehearsals, con- 
ducted by the composer himself), was brought out, with 
a cast that included Lablache, Gardoni, Coletti, Bouche, 
and, above all, Jenny Lind, who was to appear for the 
second time only in her career, in a thoroughly original 
part composed expressly for her. 

The house was filled to overflowing on the night 
of the first representation. The opera was given with 
every appearance of a triumphant success : the com- 
poser and all the singers receiving the highest honours. 
Indeed, all the artists distinguished themselves in 
their several parts. Jenny Lind acted admirably, 
and sang the airs allotted to her exquisitely. But yet 
the " Masnadieri " could not be considered a success. 
That by its production I had adopted the right course. 



" I MASNADIERI. ' 193 

was unquestionable. I had induced an Italian com- 
poser, whose reputation stood on the highest pinnacle of 
continental fame, to compose an opera expressly for my 
theatre, as well as to superintend its production. More I 
could not have done to gratify the patrons of Italian 
music, who desired to hear new works. 

It may be stated, in confirmation of the judgment of 
the London audience, that " I Masnadieri " was never 
successful on any Italian stage. The libretto was even 
worse constructed than is usually the case with adapta- 
tions of foreign dramas to the purpose of Italian 
opera. To Her Majesty's Theatre the work was sin- 
gularly ill-suited. The interest which ought to have 
been centred in Mademoiselle Lind was centred in 
Gardoni ; whilst Lablache, as the imprisoned father, 
had to do about the only thing he could not do to 
perfection — having to represent a man nearly starved 
to death. 

Since it was impossible to entertain any sound 
hopes of attraction from Verdi's " last new " opera. 
Mademoiselle Lind returned to her wonted triumphs (as 
did the theatre to its wonted " crushes "), by resuming 
the parts in which now, as heretofore, she was sure to 
be rapturously hailed by the public. To these was 
added the Susanna of the " Nozze di Figaro," to which 
character she brought not only her customary and 
recognised qualities as an accomplished singer, but 
the true Mozartian traditions. With these her early 
training had rendered her familiar, and subsequent study 
had confirmed the lesson. 

It was new to the public to listen to a singer so 
thoroughly imbued with the genius of Mozart, in one of 
his chefs d'osuvre. Unlike many Italian singers, 





1 94 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

who considered that, in faithfully executing Mozart, they 
sacrificed themselves to the exigencies of an old- 
fashioned English predilection, Jenny Lind revelled in 
her music. Her whole soul was in the work. Nor did 
Lablache, Staudigl, Coletti, and Madame Castellan 
fail to ensure, by their valuable performance, the com- 
pleteness with which " Le Nozze di Figaro " was given 
during this season. 

English connoiseurs would be astonished to learii 
how little Mozart was a few years ago known among the 
Italians. Mademoiselle Faggiani furnishes a case in 
point. She had to play the small part of Marcel- 
Una in'"Le Nozze di Figaro," and was tempted to 
increase its importance by the addition of a cadenza 
to her four lines of music. The conductor, at re- 
hearsal, told her that the composer forbade innova- 
tions, and to this authority she seemed disposed to 
yield. But having made inquiries on the subject, she 
bitterly complained of the conductor, saying that he had 
told her an untruth. She had ascertained that Signor 
Mozart had not forbidden the cadenza after all — in fact, 
he was dead. 

It had been necessary, meanwhile, to give operatic 
performances, in which the prima donna of the season 
did not sing. Never were the evenings better' entitled 
to the theatrical term of " off nights " than those on 
which Jenny Lind was allowed repose, or time for 
study. Although everything was done by the manage- 
ment to give these "off" nights all available attrac- 
tion, such was the absorbing intei-est universally felt by 
the frequenters of Her Majesty's Theatre for one star 
alone, that they claimed but little notice. The "Lucia" 
was played, with Castellan and Fraschini ; likewise, "Er- 



PROGRESS OF 1847. 195 

nani," " I Lombardi," and " L'Elisir d'Amore," upon 
an occasion when Mademoiselle Lind was indisposed. 
So great was the disappointment occasioned by this in- 
cident, that it was deemed necessary to give an extra 
subscription night to compensate the subscribers for 
their loss. 

The return of Carlotta Grisi to the boards, in her 
famous part of Esmeralda, was indeed looked upon as 
something like an event. In " Giselle," also, she did 
her best to make herself attractive. Cerito bounded 
through the " Ondine " with her customary success ; 
Kosati won more and more on popular favour ; and in a 
beautiful little divertissement invented by the ingenious 
Perrot, and called " Les Elements," all three were com- 
bined in an ensemble as brilliant as that which in the 
" Pas des Deesses " had proved one of the leading attrac- 
tions of the previous season. There is no doubt that a 
certain amount of excitement, and even enthusiasm, was 
created among the votaries of the ballet (and they were 
still many) by this combination. Taglioni — the Tag- 
lioni — actually once more appeared, bringing with her 
the far-famed " Pas de Quatre " (in which Rosati took 
the place of Lucille Grahn), and once more secured a 
triumph. The old demonstrations followed — evidences 
of the old fever of delight — ^the old shouts, plaudits, 
and recalls. But resplendent as were still the glories of 
the ballet at Her Majesty's Theatre, there can be little 
question that during the season of 1847 all was 
eclipsed by the surpassing attraction of the great magnet, 
" Jenny Lind." 

Thus the season of 1847, which had opened in 
face of the new rivalry, under such doubtful auspices, 
turned out a prosperous one for Her Majesty's Theatre ; 

o2 



196 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

at least it was so from the moment of Jenny Lind's ar- 
rival. Still I should observe that although the re- 
ceipts due to her attraction were unquestionably very 
large, yet the extra expenditure entailed upon the 
management by uncertainties, difficulties, legal proceed- 
ings, and journies, all arising out of vacillation and 
fears on the part of the prima donna, was likewise so 
enormous, as fully to keep pace with the receip^ts. 
Never had operatic matters been so completely the ab- 
sorbing topic of the day, and, within the memory of 
opera-goers, never had prima donna so exclusively cap- 
tivated the attention, and commanded the interest of all 
classes. After her nights of triumph, the last of which 
roused the audience to a demonstration utterly unpre- 
cedented, the " Swedish Nightingale " winged her way 
back to her native land, not however without leaving 
behind her a fresh engagement for my ensuing season, 
untrammelled by the obstacles of 1847. 

In the meanwhile, the romance of that first engagemeat 
with Drury Lane was gradually developed. Mr. Bunn 
brought his action against Mademoiselle Lind for breach 
of contract. The damages, originally rated by himself 
at the sum of £500, were now, in consideration of 
her great success, estimated at £10,000. The action 
came on for trial at Guildhall, in November, but 
was adjourned, in consequence of there being an insuffi- 
cient number of special jurymen. 



The first results of the establishment of the " Eoyal 
Italian Opera " at Covent Garden proved far from detri- 
mental to my interest. It soon became notorious that, 
in a pecuniary point of view, the season had proved a 
failure to Signer Persiani and Mr. Beale — so much so. 



A TESTIMONIAL. 197 

indeed, that the health of the priTna donna (wife of the 
former) became seriously affected through her anxiety and 
care. In one sense, the formation of the hostile camp 
had proved of considerable moral advantage to the direc- 
tor of the old establishment. The acrimony displayed 
by the supporters of the new opera, and the consequent 
party-spirit excited, had rallied all my friends, sup- 
porters, and patrons in firm phalanx around me. As 
well to mark the satisfaction of the old supporters of 
Her Majesty's Theatre with their season's entertainment, 
as to signify their appreciation of the director's past 
conduct in general, a magnificent testimonial was pre- 
sented to me towards the close of the season of 1847. 
It was inscribed with these words: "In record of the 
zeal, judgment and liberality, evinced in the management 
of Her Majesty's Theatre, this testimonial is presented 
to B. Lumley, Esq., by his friends and subscribers." 
A comprehensive subscription list was appended to the 
gift, including the names of several foreign ambassadorsto 
this Court (that of one of my staunchest friends. Baron 

de B , at their head), followed by the signatures of 

the Dukes of Wellington, Bedford, Cleveland, Devon- 
shire, Leinster, and Somerset ; the Marquises of Lans- 
downe, Clanricarde, Donegal, Granby, and Huntley ; 
the Earls of Lonsdale, Harrington, Kenmare, Bective, 
and Pembroke ; with a host of others, titled and un- 
titled, including that of the Prince Louis Napoleon. This 
handsome piece of plate was to me a great source of 
pride and solace amidst all my trials and anxieties, as it 
showed the esteem and favour with which I was regarded 
by opera-goers at this crisis of my fortunes. Letters 
poured in upon me on every side, and from the noblest 
in the land, in assurance of support. Even anonymous 



198 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

good wishes were conveyed to me, to cheer and encour- 
age me on my way. 

The fites champStres, given by me at my suburban 
residence (called " The Chancellors "), at Fulham, were 
always a leading feature of the summer season. They 
were thronged by persons of distinction of both sexes, 
as well as by " notabilities," dramatic, artistic, and 
literary, both foreign and English ; the present Emperor 
of the French among the rest. Invitations to these gay 
" reunions " were eagerly sought, and it may be remarked 
with truth that my position, both professional and 
private, was altogether higher at this period than it had 
ever yet been. 

Amongst the guests present at the fete of 1847 was 
the popular idol of the day, Jenny Lind, the object of 
curiosity and interest with all the gay throng assembled 
on that occasion. After an hour or so spent in the 
gardens, observing that she shrank from the universal 
gaze, I conducted her to an elegant pavilion on the 
margin of the river, where she was surrounded by a small 
and choice company. The star of Her Majesty's Theatre 
enjoyed the repast provided for her in quiet ; whilst in 
an adjoining " salon," in the same pavilion, was enter- 
tained the Duchess of Bedford's party. 



Before entirely closing the record of this important 
season of 1847, it would seem necessary to advert to 
one unfulfilled promise. Upon the prospectus anticipa- 
tions were noted of a new ballet, to be constructed by the 
celebrated German poet and satirist, Heinrich Heine. 
For some time this project had been in contemplation ; 
and, after a lengthy correspondence between the mana- 
ger and author, the detg,iled programme of this ballet 



Heine's *' taust." 199 

(upon which Heine, in his curious letters, seems to have 
set great store, as a pet offspring of his fertile brain), 
was placed in my hands. The subject was that of 
" Faust," — not the Faust of Goethe, but the original 
"Faust" of old German legendary lore, from which 
Goethe had indirectly derived the first idea of his great 
drama. Preparations were already in progress for the 
production of this work. Upon examination it was 
found, unfortunately, impracticable inrespect of its "situa- 
tions " and scenic effects for stage purposes. True, it 
was the work of a poet ; but of a poet unacquainted 
with the necessities of stage representation, especially in 
England — of a man of powerful imagination, who pre- 
supposed that a public would see the effects as he saw 
them, and feel with his feelings. In short, the execution 
of the ballet was an impossibility. In spite of the ex- 
penses already lavished on this work of a poet by 
the manager, it was found necessary to lay the ballet 
aside. 

The name of Heine is so celebrated in modern litera- 
ture, that a few of the letters addressed to me on the 
subject of his " Faust " may here be fitly introduced. 
I translate them from the French, the language in which 
he habitually corresponded: — 

Paris, 27tli February, 1847. 

Mt deajk Friend, — Herewith you have the MS., which I en- 
gaged to deliver to you at the end of this month. I assure you 
that I will never again make a promise of the sort. You have 
no notion of the harm I have done myself in endeavouring 
worthily to execute my task, in my present condition. Get the 
English translation as soon as possible, and read it at a calm, 
leisure moment. Such a reading will make you better understand 
the look of my ballet, in which, for example, the "Witch's 
Sabbat,'' is but meagrely sketched, whereas the description in my 



200 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

letter is as complete as it is authentic. You will judge of this 
yourself if you make the Prince of Darkness dance with his mis- 
tress. In the course of my researches I have found some marvel- 
lous things relative to the fantastic dance, of which, if my life is 
spared, I shall write more on some future occasion. 

The few notes which I have annexed to my long letter are 
extracts, which, if you think jfit, you may suppress in the brochure, 
to which I intend to give the following title: 

The Legend of Dk. John Faust; a Ballet-Paiitomime ; 

Followed by an explanatory letter addressed to the Director of 

Her Majesty's Theatre, by Heinkich Heine. 

If the matter in the notes does not please you, the publisher 
ought to say, en parenthese, that it has been omitted. Please let me 
have a copy of the English translation of the book and the letter, 
that I may correct it before it goes to press. My brochure ought to 
be very interesting to those who only know the "Faust" of Goethe. 
I shall, therefore, at some future time, publish it in German, but 
in an amplified form, and accompanied by some learned illustrations, 
that I may not incur the censure of our erudite Fausto-logists. Keep 
the name of my ballet a secret till the last, and in case of neces- 
sity, call it " Astaroth." I have shown in my letter that this 
name, as well as MqphistopheUs, belonged to the demon invoked by 
Faust; and hence in your announcements you may fairly make 
use of it as a provisional title. You will be pleased to see the pains 
I have taken to make people understand that you give the real 
Faust of the legend. Your devoted, 

Heinkich Heine. 

Paris, 7th April, 1847. 
Mt deab Friend, — I do not doubt that you are up to your ears 
in business, and that all your thoughts are absorbed in your daily 
struggles. Nevertheless, I implore you to think of me for a couple 
of minutes, and to employ them — ^first, in sending me some money, 
next in giving me some notion of the time when my ballet will be 
produced. Above all, don't forget the money. I have relied upon 
you for this present month of April, and feel assured that England, 
immense as her expenses must be in these warlike times, is always 
sufficiently rich to subsidize her poorer allies, who are very brave, 



Heine's "faust." 201 

and very beggarly— C<m gueux). At all events, write to me forth- 
with. My unfortunate industrial affairs have plunged me into a 
financial embarrassment, as harassing as that of H. M. the King of 
Prussia. 

As I am of opinion that you will bring out my ballet in the 
course of the present month, I have just taken precautions to secure 
my copyright in France. I have had a few dozen copies secretly 
printed by a discreet printer ; and by lodging them among the 
Archives of the Minister of the Interior, as prescribed by law, have 

protected myself against piracy A thousand good wishes 

from your devoted, Heinrich Heine. 

Paris, May 3rd, 1847. 

My dear Fkiend, — I have received yours of the 27th ult. No 
one can be more amiable than you. I thank you for the advance 
of the 6000 francs, for which I gave an acknowledgment to MM 
Lafitte and Co. The money, I must own, comes to me very 
apropos; and hence I thank you doubly. I shall be delighted to 
hear of the production of my ballet — its success appears to me in- 
dubitable. All that I have hitherto done has found favour with 
the public ; and as for you, you have luck on your side, as I can 
perceive by the great triumphs, on which I congratulate you. You 
will find my ballet excite a furore beyond all our expectation, and 
even take a place in the annals of the drama. Indeed, your gene- 
rosity would quite overwhelm me, did I for a moment entertain a 
doubt of a great success. With respect to the secret printing of 
the book, of which I have spoken, I should be vexed in the extreme 
if I thought that it interfered vwth your rights ; but I do not fear 
anything of the kind. My secret is safe in the hands of a man 
who is naturally very discreet — namely, Buloz, the director of the 
Bevue des Deux Mondes, who keeps a press of his own, in the name 
of his chief clerk. The latter is named as my publisher, and all 
the copies are in my hands, vyith the exception of two, which I 
have lodged with the Minister of the Interior, and which are con- 
sequently buried in the Catacombs for printed paper in the Kue 
de Grenoble. Moreover, there is nothing in the title to indicate a 
ballet. AU the copies, I repeat, are in my hands, and I shall 
send them to London by the Messagerie. This very day I send a 
copy -with the letter which I now write to you^ in spite of the 



202 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

dreadful state of my eyes. Buloz, too, has a personal interest in 
keeping my secret. I had informed him of my intention to print 
my libretto in the Berne des Deux Mondes, together with the letter 
to Mr. Lumley, as soon as my ballet was produced in London ; and 
it was he himself who advised me to sacrifice a few francs in print- 
ing it secretly and proAdsionally, in order that I might legally 
protect myself against the dramatic pirates, who would lay hold of 
my work if it appeared in the Eevue, a periodical which is not pro- 
tected as it ought to be by the law. You see, my dear friend, that, 
according to my belief, I have acted for the best. You will now 
teU me whether you object to the publication of my ballet in the 
Revue des Deux Mondes, immediately after the first performance in 
London — ^for I do not wish to do anything without your authority. 
In any case, send me a paper that I shall only have to b^ for the 
security of your copyri^t, so far as this is posable. I am not 
acquainted with the laws of England relative to interests of this 
kind ; but it seems to me that aU that would compromise you may 
be avoided by a very simple expedient. You have only to print 
some copied in English, and keep them under lock and key till the 
day of the first performance. At all events, you, who are dexterity 
personified, wiU be able to devise some means for your own pro- 
tection. With the copies of the ballet, I shall send, you along 
fantastical poem, which I have inserted in the Remte des DeuxMondes, 
and which has had an enormous success. You will there find the 
description of the chase by night, and of the Diane Chassserese, who 
appears as a phantom. By publishing my ballet here in the Revue 
des Deux Mondes, I shew that I attach an artistic importance to it 
which is altogether exceptional ; and the literary weight of the Revue 
will thus give us a Uf t. I do not think it would be unadvisable to 
print the German version of the book at the same time (with some 
notices of the preface) in the Augsburg Gazette. This would save you 
an advertisement. Consider me at your disposal in everything^ 
By-the-bye, explain to your baUet-maistre what I have written in 
my letter on the subject of the "Witches' Sabbath," and ask him 
if it is not possible (after the exit of FavM) to make the Duchess 
dance a frightfully grotesque pas de deux with the infernal Goat. 
The Duchess would thus be the Domina of the Jete, whom I have 
described in my letter, but I do not think one could venture to 
go so far in such a fashionable theatre as yours. 

Yours devotedly, Heinrich Heine. 



HEINE S "FAUST." 203 

To show how long poor Heine continued sanguine on the 
subject of his impossible ballet, I take a great leap, and 
insert a letter written five years afterwards : — 

Paris, 21st February, 1852. 

Mt deab Mr. Ldmlet, — To make a clean breast of it, I feel 
compelled to tell you of an annoyance, which may have but little 
interest for you, but which I feel very acutely. I had had a transla- 
tion made of my little book of " Faust," in order that it might form 
part of a larger work than any that I shall publish this year, and 
had sent this to the Bevue des dmx Mondes for preliminary use. 
About a fortnight ago, M. de Mars, the manager, called upon me, 
saying that he would publish this work, after making some im- 
provements in point of style, and proposing that I should change 
and omit some portions, I gave him full authority to do as he 
pleased, with the sole reservation that he should not alter the 
title of the work, or cut out any part of the letter to you. Imagine 
my annoyance when, on the appearance of the last number, I at 
once perceived that my formal demand had not been complied 
with. I am on good terms with M. Buloz, the director of the 
Revue des deux Mondes, and have seen no reason to complain of 
him. Indeed, I have always found him more loyal than other 
directors of the French journals, who have very little respect for 
an author's dignity, and who, while they declaim grandiloquently 
about the liberty of the press, cut and hack one's thoughts, as 
caprice may suggest, veritable despots as they are. Hence I was 
the more astonished at what Buloz had done on this occasion. I 
shall complain bitterly, and have no doubt that he will acknow- 
ledge his fault, and particularly with respect to you, prove his regret 
on some future occasion. I am too iU at present to occupy myseK 
with discussions of the sort, but to-day my friendship for you 
compels me to speak. I am aware that you wiU not be surprised 
to find yi-wiU in the Paris press, but still it is always as well to 
know in what shape it displays itself. 

My baUet has been greatly extolled by those who have read the 
' ' Faust " manuscript, and everybody is surprised that you have delayed 
its representation till now. I should be delighted if the public 
voice caused you to return to your original intention, and if the 
reputation of the book convinced you that this most conscientious 



204 REMINISCKNCES OF THE OPERA. 

work would succeed at Her Majesty's Theatre, if you but decided 
on its representation. Be assured, sir, that there are few persons 
so heartily devoted to you as your affectionate servant, 

Heinkich Heine. 

From these letters it will be perceived that Heine 
had an amount of heart larger than is commonly sup- 
posed. Before taking leave of him and his " Faust," I 
may observe that one of his ideas furnished M. Paul 
Taglioni with the subject of his " Satanella." It was 
Heine who was of opinion that the Tempter should 
appear not as a hideous man, but as a beautiful 
woman. 



The season of 1847 had closed, and in the late 
autumn I departed for the Continent in search of fresh 
talent for the season ensuing. Taking Germany in my 
way, to meet my late triumphant prima donna at 
Berlin, I visited all the principal theatres of the north of 
Italy. 

It was at Eovigo that I first saw, in Verdi's opera of 
" Attila," a prima donna whose name afterwards came 
to be intimately associated with Her Majesty's Theatre, 
and was at once charmed with the fresh and rksonnante 
voice of Mademoiselle Sophie Cruvelli. Overtures were 
immediately made to her for an engagement for the en- 
suing season in London ; whereat Sophie Cruvelli was 
" in ecstacies." Her family objected that it was " too 
early yet" for her to risk the ordeal of an English 
public ; but the young and spirited primxi donna her- 
self listened with " charmed ears " to my proposals. 
In my own opinion of Sophie Cruvelli, I was fortified by 
that of Eubini, who congratulated me on my intention. 
" Yi dico francamente," he wrote, " e con inUma per^ 



RUBINl'S POWER OF FASCINATION. 205 

suazione, che fareste un eccellente aquisto." " Una 
hellissima voce" he wrote again, " datele huoni modelli 
e un buon maestro." " She is young, and ought to have 
a glorious future before her !" 

The opinion of Rubini was always entitled to respect. 
Never probably was there another singer who so abso- 
lutely commanded the admiration of his brother artists. 
I remember well that in the " good old times," when he 
was executing one of his fascinating arias, Lablache and 
others of " the corps " would linger at the wings, as 
though unwilling to lose one of his enchanting notes. 
Considering how unusual it is for one singer to take 
much interest in the performance of another, this fact 
is significant of Rubini's power of enchaining the ear of 
his listeners. 



206 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Season of 1848— SopMe Crnvelli— Belletti— Guzzani— The Ballet " Fi- 
orita" — ^Verdi's " Attila" — Abbadia — Sophie Vera — ^Performance for 
the Benefit of Distressed Artisans — ^Labocetta — Reappearance of 
Jenny lind — The Farewell Night — TadoUni — " Les Qnatre Saisons " 
— ^Decline of the Ballet — Jenny Lind's determination to quit the Stage. 

Nowise disheartened by the prospect of a renewed 
struggle with the " Eoyal Italian Opera," I made my 
preparations for the opening of the season of 1848 
under hopeful auspices, and with a far more reasonable 
promise of success than at the commencement of 1847. 

The engagement of Jenny Lind for the season has 
been already mentioned. This was a tower of strength 
to the management, since her triumph of the previous 
year seemed to afford a warrant of her success in 
the future. The fever of excitement created by the 
" Swedish Nightingale " had by no means subsided 
during the recess, and would, in all likelihood, be again 
revived upon the first occasion. Novel attractions, upon 
which the highest expectations might legitimately be 
founded, had also been provided. On the other hand, 
it was rumoured that, in a financial point of view, the 
rival enterprise at Covent Garden had been anything 
but successful. With these considerations the manage- 
ment of Her Majesty's Theatre looked forward with hope 
and confidence to the future which lay before it. 

Whatever fresh attraction might be in store, however, 



SEASON OF 1848. 207 

it was indubitable that Mademoiselle Lind must be re- 
garded as the main source of popularity for the theatre, 
and of advantage to the management. It was obviously 
my policy to produce my favourite prima donna as early 
in the season as possible- But against this hope difficul- 
ties and hindrances again arose. " The course of " 
opera management, it would seem, " never doth run 
smooth." Mademoiselle Lind was in her native country, 
at Stockholm ; and when I urged her return as speedily 
as possible, I was met by assurances that it was impossi- 
ble for her to start for England so soon as I desired. 
" The winter was long and tedious in the north. The 
Baltic was still encumbered with ice. It would be 
many weeks before the Baltic steamers could again 
perform their customary voyages ; and even when the 
ice broke up it might be long before the passage could 
be made without considerable risk and peril." 

The young singer, in all her letters, whilst expressing 
the strongest desire to revisit " ce cher Londres," was 
evidently appalled at the idea of encountering difficulties 
(easily magnified into dangers), and of adventuring 
upon hardships and inclemencies inseparable from a 
journey from the "Far North." "Le plut&t possible," 
was the only vague promise to be extracted from her ; 
" a cette epoque c'est beaucoup risquer," was the burden 
of all her hesitations. ^' Even if I seek to make the 
journey by Copenhagen," she wrote again, " les chemins 
sont terribles." Besides, the French revolution of 
1848 had broken out. Germany was in a state of fer- 
ment ; and what might not happen if she attempted to 
traverse the north of Europe ? The state of politics, 
as well as the state of climate, militated thus against my 
eager wishes, so that I was forced to bide my time for 



208 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the advent of my principal star with what patience I 
could muster under the circumstances. 

It Was, moreover, evident, from Mademoiselle Lind's 
earlier letters at this period, that her mind was still 
somewhat disturbed by the thought of Mr. Bunn's im- 
pending suit. " Ce malheureux proces !" she wrote, 
"ne va-t-il jamais ^tre decidfe!" 

The action of " Bunn v. Lind" was decided, however, 
long before the arrival of the trembling prima donna. 
Shortly after the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre for 
the season of 1848, the cause was tried " before Lord 
Denman and a Special Jury " in the Court of Queen's 
Bench, at the Guildhall. The proceedings excited great 
interest at the time. The Attorney-General appeared 
for Mademoiselle Lind ; Mr. Bunn was represented by 
the present distinguished Chief Justice, then Mr. Cock- 
burn ; and the court was crowded to excess. 

Eminent as were the pleaders in justification of the 
lady's breach of contract, the jury, probably taking 
the tender for their guide, gave a verdict in favour of 
the plaintiff, with £2500 damages. 

Let it not be forgotten, that there had been a time 
when the hasty contract might have been cancelled for 
£500, had not Mademoiselle Lind superseded the nego- 
ciation to that effect by an untenable proposal of her own. 
The subsequent success of the prima donna had warmed 
up Mr. Bunn into a demand for £10,000 ; but a British 
jury assessed his damages at a lower figure. And 
thus substantially ended the tedious romance which 
had wound its harassing course through so many inci- 
dents, accidents, and peripeties, but of which I was, 
finally, the only real victim. 

It may be recorded here, before I drop the subject of 



PROGRAMME OF 1848. 209 

the disastrous contract with Mr. Bunn, that Mademoi- 
selle Lind, on her arrival, made overtures of some 
species of compensation for the losses I had incurred on 
her account ; but though the proposal was fully appre- 
ciated, the offer was not accepted. 



The promise held forth for the approaching season at 
Her Majesty's Theatre was not only great, but brilliant. 
At the head of the programme stood, of course, the name 
of Jenny Lind ; sufficient in itself to warrant a hopeful 
view. But not content with the certain attraction of 
the " Swedish Nightingale," I added that of Madame 
Tadolini, a prima donna of great name and fame both 
in Italy and Germany. Mademoiselle Sophie Cruvelli, 
a new star who now first rose upon the horizon of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, was comparatively unknown. 
But in the previous autumn, as I have already nar- 
rated, I had been struck with the splendid voice, the impul- 
sive dramatic temperament, the spirit, and the captivat- 
ing person of this young soprano, then singing at Rovigo. 
She had since found opportunities of widely increas- 
ing her fame by her performances at the " Fenice," 
at Venice, so that her growing reputation fully jus- 
tified the curiosity evinced by the dilettanti of the 
day in regard to the debut of Mademoiselle Sophie, 
Mademoiselle Abbadia was likewise to make her 
venture on the Anglo-Italian stage, heralded by no 
inconsiderable Italian repute. Mademoiselle Sophie 
Vera, a young singer, said to be of considerable merit, 
and Mademoiselle Schwartz, a contralto, from Vienna, 
were announced ; and Mademoiselle Moltini was likewise 
to return. There was at once strength and interest and 
novelty in this long bill of fare. Gardoni, who had esta- 

p 



210 EEMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

blished so many claims to sympathy and popularity in the 
previous season, headed the list of tenors. In the place of 
Fraschini appeared two fresh names — that of Signor 
Cuzzani, from " la Scala," where he had been a popular 
favourite with the Milanese, and that of Signor Labocetta, 
who brought with him, as titles to a position on the boards 
of Her Majesty's Theatre, warm and urgent recommenda- 
tions from theEarl of Westmoreland (himself a distinguished 
musician as well as connoisseur), and from the Countess 
Eossi, formerly so great a favourite in London as Made- 
moiselle Sontag. Lablache, Coletti, and Bouche, with 
Federico Lablache, were to maintain their well-estab- 
lished position as representatives of the bass and bari- 
tone scales. Along with them appeared, for the first 
time, the name of a new and unknown artist, who was 
destined to establish himself permanently in English 
favour. Signor Beletti was coming, with credentials 
of which he had every reason to be proud, for they re- 
presented the high professional esteem and good will 
of no less a person than Jenny Lind. He had been her 
camarade on the boards of the Stockholm Theatre ; and 
in her letters to me, the young piima donna spoke 
favourably of her brother artist, and evinced a sincere 
solicitude for his engagement. Her opinion was subse- 
quently confirmed by general assent. 

The provision in store for the season of 1848 was, it 
wiU be seen by this enumeration of the artists engaged, 
ample and complete, and as a last feature Balfe was to 
preside as before over the orchestra. 

No less remarkable were the announcements respect- 
ing the ballet department. In addition to the long-esta- 
blished and popular names of Carlotti Grisi and Cerito 
appeared, first, that of Rosati, whose style of dancing had 



DiBUT OF SOPHIE CRUVELLI. 211 

been much admired during the previous season ; and 
secondly, that of the sprightly and graceful young Marie 
Taglioni, who had won much favour at Her Majesty's 
Theatre in 1847 and was to return to it after a success- 
ful winter's performance at Berlin. These were supported 
by the usual brilliant host of minor danseuses. The 
names of Perrot and Paul Taglioni again appeared as 
rival maitres de ballet, with the accomplished St. Leon, 
the quaintly-named "Louis d'Or," and other mimes and 
dancers. There was no diminution, then, in the forces 
of the great choreographic army of Her Majesty's 
Theatre ; and, consequently, every reason to suppose that 
the ballet would maintain its wonted prestige. 

" Eager for the fray," I was in the field early, even 
more early than usual ; taking up my position before the 
forces of the rival establishment were mustered. The 
theatre opened on Saturday, the 19th February, with 
Verdi's opera of " Ernani," which had been selected as 
a favourable framework for the dSbuts of no less than 
three new artists — viz., Mademoiselle Cruvelli as Elvira, 
Signer Cuzzani as Ernani, Signor Beletti as Silva. 

Although Sophie Cruvelli, at this stage of her career, 
may not have been a faultless vocalist — (and it has been 
already seen how Kubini had declared, "Give her good 
models to study, and a good master, and she mil be 
great") — she came, nevertheless, before the London 
audience with so many natural advantages that she was at 
once acknowledged as certain to become a general favour- 
ite. Indeed, it may be fairly assumed that, had not Jenny 
Lind so completely absorbed the public mind and thus ren- 
dered any rivalry in public estimation almost impossible, 
Sophie Cruvelli would have exercised even greater sway 
over the operatic world of London. She was endowed 

p2 



212 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

with rare and precious gifts — a magnificent organ, sufficient 
artistic capacity, and a highly attractive person. She 
possessed, too, a certain quality which might become a trea- 
sure or a bane, according to the way in which she applied 
it. This was an impulsive, ardent, almost reckless genius 
— a quality capable of achieving great results, but 
requiring to be reined in by judgment, taste, and tact, 
so as not to overspring the boundaries of legitimate art, 
or (in common parlance) to "run wild." Had she the 
tact, the taste, the judgment ? Upon these depended 
her future greatness. There is no doubt, however, that 
in spite of the sudden and awful nervousness which fell 
upon her when for the first time she faced the densely- 
crowded audience of Her Majesty's Theatre, the aspect of 
which somewhat paralysed her effortsin her aria cPentrata, 
Sophie Cruvelli did achieve a signal success on the occa- 
sion of her debut. When once the undeniable spirit 
within was aroused, she carried all before her by its 
power. She was young, handsome, impulsive, clever ; 
and with these advantages, she could hardly fail to be 
irresistible. 

By the side of this strangely-gifted child of genius, 
another debutante already mentioned obtained a success 
equally certain, perhaps even more solid. Steady and 
sound as a musician, Beletti seemed to place his feet 
upon the boards of the opera-house with a consciousness 
that it was firm ground. He had a sonorous and flexible 
voice, sang in a careful, correct style, with a voluble 
delivery, but was endowed with little power as an 
actor. Beletti took up his position from the very first 
evening of his appearance — a position incontestable and 
uncontested. This was a pleasing circumstance for her 
who had in some measure staked her own reputation 



NEW CAST OF " ERNANI." 213 

for judgment on the success of her estimable comrade. 

Cuzzani, the favourite of the Berliners, was less happy 
in his debut. He was pronounced to be ''pleasant," 
" nice," or any other epithet that did not go beyond a 
certain succes d'estime. He appeared under the disad- 
vantage of an influenza ; but the judgment of the 
public was never wholly reversed, either on subsequent 
evenings or in other operas. 

So great had been the popularity of Gardoni during 
the previous season, that to produce their pet sympa- 
thetic tenor before the habitues of Her Majesty's Theatre, 
was ever to " play a trump card." On this account 
the young singer was " cast " for the character of the 
king in "Ernani ;" the part in the original score being 
written for a baritone.* Some of the music was con- 
sequently transposed for Gardoni. But the commanding 
power of voice required to enable him to predominate 
in the great finale of the third act, was wanting ; and 
accordingly the reputation of the favourite tenor no- 
wise gained by this venture. Still, by dint of all the 
varied interest due to the novelty of the "cast," "Ernani" 
worked its way, and gave a very imT^ort-dnt prestige to 
the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre for the season of 
1848. 

Avery poetical fairy ballet, composed by Paul Taglioni, 
and entitled " Fiorita," introduced the two debutantes of 
the previous season, who had already received marks of 
public favour — viz., Kosati and Marie Taglioni. With 
exquisitely pretty scenery, and lavishly-beautiful decora- 
tion in every respect, this new choreographic work was 

* The part had been given in the previous year, atCovent G-arden, 
to Mademoiselle Alboni, a contralto, then in the height of her popu- 
larity. But the result had been altogether unsatisfactory. 



214 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

pronounced another "success" — the two dancers emulat- 
ing each other under the excitement produced. 

I had thus a fair start, and might perhaps keep the vic- 
tory in the race about to be run. "Ernani" was followed 
up by " II Barbiere," for Cruvelli, Gardoni, and Beletti, 
(this last as Figaro), Federico Lablache sustaining his 
father's part of Bartolo, not without merit ; and again 
the young singers pleased all save the hyper-critical. 
But the chief attraction of the ante-Easter season was 
reserved for the " Attila " of Verdi, the opera in which 
I had first heard and been charmed with the rich voice 
and dramatic qualities of Sophie Cruvelli, at Padua. 
This was, in fact, the opera in which she first appeared 
upon any stage. 

None, perhaps, of Verdi's works had kindled more 
enthusiasm in Italy, or crowned the fortunate composer 
with more abundant laurels than his "Attila." Its fame 
was great in the native land of the composer. In cater- 
ing for novelty, therefore, the Director of Her Majesty's 
Theatre must be held to have done well in producing a 
work of so great repute, and in placing before his sub- 
scribers the leading opera of the day upon the Italian 
stage. To prove with what good will this was done, 
the opera had been "mounted" with great scenic splen- 
dour, and with every "appliance" likelyto produce effect. 

" Attila " was produced on Tuesday, the 14th of 
March. Cruvelli saug " con fuoco." Her fine fresh 
ringing voice "told." Beletti displayed unusual his- 
trionic talent, besides all that steadiness and excellence of 
" school," which helped to earn him his reputation in 
this country. G-ardoni was in the " cast/' whilst Cuzzani 
accepted a second tenor part. On every side were zeal, 
talent, and good-will employed successfully to execute a 



<^ ATVpTT A *' 



ATTILA." 215 

work which many cities of Italy had pronounced to be 
Verdi's masterpiece. But although Verdi had already 
commenced to make his way to English favour — and 
this by means of that vigour and dramatic fire which 
unquestionably belonged to him — the public displayed 
an unwonted unanimity of sulkiness upon the produc- 
tion of "Attila." They would have "none of it." 
Consequently "Attila" proved a failure. Music and 
libretto displeased alike. 

Notwithstanding the ill-favour with which this work 
was received, it was found unavoidable to fall back once 
more upon Verdi, and "I Due Foscari " and "Nino" 
were both revived. The former was given for the first 
appearance (that season) of Coletti, now become a popu- 
lar singer, and great' in the character of the unhappy 
Doge. The latter was revived for the joint debuts of 
Mesdemoiselles Abbadia and Sophie Vera. The fate of 
these debutantes was different. Mademoiselle Abbadia 
utterly failed to win the favour of her new audience ; 
whilst Mademoiselle Vera was kindly received. 

The pre-paschal season thus sped on, with Cruvelli, 
Gardoni, Coletti, and Beletti as its chief attractions — 
not without some drawbacks, however, since the illness 
of Cruvelli caused the postponement of " Lucrezia 
Borgia," in which Mademoiselle Schwartz, the new con- 
tralto, was to have appeared. The great Lablache, on 
this occasion, came opportunely to the rescue, making 
his first appearance for the season in a portion of 
" II Matrimonio Segreto." " Lucrezia " at last enabled 
Mademoiselle Cruvelli to increase her reputation as a 
dramatic vocalist, and gave Gardoni another hold upon 
his already sympathetic audience in the part of Gennaro. 
The " cast," moreover, was in other respects most in- 



216 REMINISCENCES OF THE OpERA. 

teresting. Not only did Mademoiselle Schwartz make a 
favourable d&)ut as Maffeo Orsini (a hard task, consider- 
ing the immense popularity of Mademoiselle Alboni at 
the rival house), but Lablache resumed on the occasion 
his character of Alfonso, in which, though it was one of 
his greatest parts, he had of late rarely appeared. 

These performances had been diversified by a grand 
extra night for the benefit of the " distressed artisans," 
for which I granted the use of my theatre, when I 
was honoured by the presence of the Queen, the Court, 
and (in familiar phrase) "all London;" and again, by two 
miscellaneous concerts. At one of these the " Stabat 
Mater " was presented to its hosts of admirers, and M. 
Thalberg, the illustrious pianist, played. 

Thus far the season had advanced, when suddenly the 
rumour spread, " Jenny Lind is come !" Jenny Lind 
was come. She had left Stockholm on the 13th of 
April, escorted from the shore to the steam-ship by some 
ten thousand of her countrymen ; she had departed 
from her native land amidst music and cheers, and 
wavings of hats and handkerchiefs continued so long as 
the vessel that bore away the cherished songstress re- 
mained in sight. 

All London soon knew that Jenny Lind was come, and 
"all London " again took up its excitement at same point 
of " fever-heat" whereat it had stood at her departure in 
the previous year. 

Yes ! Jenny Lind was amongst us, and the most eager 
expectations were raised as to her first appearance. 
When? — How? — What would she play? — were the ques- 
tions impatiently asked. She had arrived in London 
on Good Friday, the 21st of April, and required some 
repose after her long journey. It was earnestly desired 



REAPPEARANCE OF JENNY LIND. 217 

that she would appear on Saturday, the 29th. But 
with the natural tendency of the "Scandinavian temper- 
ament to believe in occult influences, Mademoiselle Lind 
laid great stress on the fact that the 4th of May (the 
ensuing Thursday) was the date of her first appearance 
on the London boards, and she therefore decided that 
on the 4th of May, and not before the 4th of May, she 
would celebrate her return to the boards of Her Majesty's 
Theatre. 

In the meanwhile, the period of the recess having 
passed over, it was necessary, for reopening the theatre, 
to fall back upon the resources of the ante-Easter season. 
" Lucrezia Borgia " (postponed again on account of the 
illness of Gardoni), "I Due Foscari," and Cerito and 
St. Leon, who reappeared in their favourite divertissement 
of " La Vivandiere," were the chief attractions. On 
Saturday, the 29th of April (the Saturday on which the 
public had hoped to have welcomed back Jenny Lind), 
Signor Labocetta, the tenor from the Italian Opera at 
Berlin, made his debut in " II Barbiere." He was con- 
sidered deficient in the qualities needed to sustain a 
permanent position in a theatre of such magnitude and 
such pretensions, and the court favourite of Berlin 
received nothing more than " faint praise " and '' cold 
esteem." 

And now Thursday, the 4th of May, drew nigh. The 
privileged of the theatre told tales abroad of the appear- 
ance of the " Swedish Nightingale " at rehearsal, of her 
enthusiastic reception by all the members of the or- 
chestra, of her overpowering emotion on facing this 
tumultuously flattering welcome, and of her undiminished, 
nay, increased powers. Thursday, the 4th of May came. 
The scenes of excitement in all the thoroughfares lead- 



218 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

ing to the theatre were once more renewed ; again were 
struggling crowds early at the doors ; again were hats 
doubled up, and dresses torn ; and again was the throng 
of carriages, the clamour and conflict of coachmen, ser- 
vants, policemen, mob, the same as of yore. A " Jenny 
Lind crush " had lost nothing of its fever and intensity. 
The adored prima donna was to make her reappearance 
in the part which, more than all, had fascinated her 
enraptured admirers of the previous year, namely, the 
part of Amina in " La Sonnambula." 

Words fail to describe the aspect of the overcrowded 
house, the tumultuous reception, the enthusiasm which 
knew no bounds and no limits of time, or to give an 
idea of the prolonged cheering that followed every vocal 
display on the part of this idol of the public. The 
house was crowded to a state of impossibility, which 
eagerness and determination had exercised their magic 
to make possible. The Court was present ; and an in- 
cident, independent of the great event of the evening, is 
worthy of record. It was the first appearance of the 
Queen in public, since the famous lOth of April, when 
English loyalty and English " pluck " had pretty clearly 
shown that England could have nothing to fear from the 
revolutionary elements which were just then rife in 
Europe, driving monarchs from their thrones. When 
the British Sovereign first reappeared among her 
subjects, loyalty was not to be baulked of a fitting de- 
monstration ; and in spite of the etiquette of the day, 
which allowed the Queen, as well as her subjects, to 
enjoy a dramatic entertainment without interruption, 
she was received by such universal homage of acclama- 
tion, that she was constrained to appear in the front 
of her box to acknowledge the demonstration, whilst the 



THE " 10th of APRIL." 219 

National Anthem was sung by the chief singers of the 
establishment.* Well might the newspapers of the day 
preface their record by the phrase, " The great evening 
of the season has come off, and the result has been most 
brilliant." 

It would be superfluous to record each night of un- 
diminished " sensation," and every evidence of an 
enthusiasm amounting almost to frenzy, and not unaptly 
termed " the Jenny Lind mania " (although without a 
trace of the falseness or delusion usually applied to the 
expression " mania, ") as it would be a task of singular 
monotony to attempt to depict every " Jenny Lind 
crush." The great singer's nightly reception, by equally 
crowded houses, and the same deafening acclamations, 
must be simply indicated by the musical phrase, da capo 
— and again da capo — and once more da capo, up to the 

* On the occasion of the memorable 10th of April, when the 
liveliest fears were abroad respecting the mischievous purposes of 
the mob, extraordinary preparations had been made to defend Her 
Majesty's Theatre from any projected attack. The windows and doors 
were to be barricaded, so as to leave the whole force of the defence 
concentrated on one or two points. The employes of the theatre were 
to be divided into two sections, each with a lieutenant under the 
orders of a commander. Sentinels were to be posted to watch the 
main entrance. Should the stage door to the street be forced, 
the two divisions were to fall back, in diflferent directions, each 
making good its own ground at the various points indicated, 
" where a good defence might be made by a few determined men." 
With pistols, and a few " small arms," it was considered that they 
" could hold the passages a long time." " Should the mob event- 
ually overpower all resistance, the defenders might then make good 
their retreat across the stage, or to the Arcade, or over the roof of 
the concert room," says the report. The whole document is a 
curious illustration of the popular feeling on that extraordinary 
day. 



220 REMINISCENCES OF THE OtERA. 

last night of the season. A review of Jenny Lind's 
fresh performances can alone be attempted, the vivid 
colouring of the outlines being left to the imagination of 
the reader. 

After repeating the " Sonnambula " and " La Figlia 
del Eeggimento " to overcrowded houses, Mademoiselle 
Lind appeared (for the first time in England), on Thurs- 
day, May 25th, as "Lucia di Lammermoor," Again, 
both as singer and actress, her triumph was complete. 
No praise was considered too high, no amount of applause 
sufficient even, to mark the sense of popular opinion and 
the admiration of the throng, who struggled and swel- 
tered to witness her performance in this part. 

On Thursday, the 8th of June, she appeared in a 
second new part, the Adina of the " Elisir." Again the 
same triumph — the same enthusiasm ! That inexpressi- 
ble charm which pervaded almost all the impersonations 
of the gifted songstress, gave a new stamp to the charac- 
ter of the village coquette. Of the singing of the part 
it would be needless to speak further. " Such an 
Adina we have never beheld," was the judgment of the 
day — Gardoni, Beletti, and Lablache, all heard and seen 
to signal advantage, gave the crowning colour of excel- 
lence to the rendering of Donizetti's charming opera 
huffa. The Swedish prima donna won again, in 
the '' Puritaiii," one of those triumphs which now seemed 
to attend her in all that she brought before her audience. 
Words seemed insufficient to express the admiration of 
her adorers in all classes. Few were those who criticised 
or even analysed the general judgment. 

With these three parts terminated the series of fresh 
impersonations of Jenny Lind. Since the vast space of 
Her Majesty's Theatre was filled to suffocation on every 



"ROBERTO" AND "FIGARO." 22,1 

night when the "Swedish Nightingale" appeared, what- 
ever the opera — whatever the character she sang — there 
was little need to encumber her with study by the produc- 
tion of fresh operatic works. 

Two of the most successful pieces of last season had 
meanwhile been given. Jenny Lind appeared in the 
part which had first " taken the town by storm," — in 
the part of Alice, in " Koberto II Diavolo." But, al- 
though the public seemed to care for nothing but Jenny 
Lind, and although all the interest of the opera centred 
in the great favourite of the day, that same public ap- 
peared to resent the mutilation of Meyerbeer's great 
work : 1st, by the entire suppression of the character 
of the Princess Isabella, and 2nd, by the omission of 
two complete acts. The revival was thus a failure in 
popular esteem, though not in remunerative attraction ; 
for, as has been said, whenever, and whatever "Jenny " 
sang, the house was crowded to its farthest limits. The 
" cast," it must be said, lacked the completeness of the 
previous year, Gardoni (the Raimbaldo of the previous 
season), favourite though he was, was pronounced not up 
to the part of Roberto ; whilst Beletti, although usually 
applauded by the.audience. in other characters was judged 
deficient in the depth and intensity necessary to Bertram. 
Labocetta, the new Raimbaldo, also failed to please. 
The experiment of the revival of " Koberto il Diavolo," 
under these conditions, was, therefore, anything but 
prosperous. 

Far more satisfactory was that of " Le Nozze di 
Figaro," with Jenny Lind as Susanna, Cruvelli as the 
Countess, and the whole bass force of the establishment 
(unusually strong for any one operatic troupe), com- 
prising Lablache, Coletti, Beletti, and Bouche. Had 



222 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

not Mademoiselle Schwartz, the contralto of the season, 
been unfortunately suffering both from mental affliction, 
and severe indisposition, and thus unable to do full justice 
to the Cherubino, this performance of Mozart's great opera 
might have been looked upon as one of the most com- 
plete ever witnessed. 

And now the career of the distinguished artist ap- 
proached to its close for the season of 1848, On Thurs- 
day, August the 24th, Mademoiselle Knd sang " La 
Sonnambula " for the last time. Her welcome of the 
4th of May previous could scarcely have been surpassed 
in the amount of rapture and enthusiasm to which a 
great theatre could give vent ; but yet it was almost 
" o'ertopped " by the tumult of applause, the waving 
of hats and handkerchiefs, and the long protracted lin- 
gering, and still lingering cheer which bade farewell to 
the great singer on this night. The curtain at last 
fell on Jenny Lind, and in falling, closed a season of un- 
exampled interest. 



My record of the season has been occupied, since the 
debut of this gifted songstress, with her performances 
only. But there had been materials of interest, and 
indeed causes of excitement, scattered among the operatic 
doings of the year, apart from Jenny Lind. These 
events claim their special notice in a history of my 
management. 

On Saturday, May the 20th, Madame Tadolini, the 
favourite heroine of Donizetti, whose great reputation 
in all the chief theatres of Italy, as well as at Vienna, 
had rendered her debut a matter of much surmise and 
curiosity, made her first appearance in "Linda di 
Chamouni." That this deT)ut was successful could not 



SIMS REEVES. 223 

be gainsaid. With a fine person, a voice of excellent 
natural quality, considerable brilliancy of execution 
(slightly defective perhaps in finish), and energetic 
powers as an actress, the new prima donna displayed 
much to justify the warmth of her welcome, and the 
amount of encouraging applause which followed upon it. 
Still, the impression made by this great favourite of so 
many continental audiences was neither strong nor per- 
manent; so hard was it to struggle with advantage against 
the absorbing presfo^e which surrounded Jenny Lind. 

Scarcely less noteworthy was the first appearance of 
the well-known English tenor, Mr. Sims Reeves, in the 
part of Carlo, on the same occasion. It was in those 
days a rare event for an English singer to venture upon 
the boards of the Anglo-Italian stage ; and the force of 
fashion and prejudice made the venture one of unusual 
difficulty. But with his advantages of Italian training 
and style, Mr. Sims Reeves was entitled to be fairly 
considered as an Italian singer. He had not only a 
beautiful natural organ, but expression and passion were 
at his command, and there can be little doubt that he 
might have permanently justified the enthusiastic wel- 
come of what might be termed the "national" portion 
of the audience of Her Majesty's Theatre, and might 
have battled successfully against prejudice, had not 
difficulties, created by himself, arisen, and caused his 
secession for the remainder of the season. On the re- 
petition of the opera of " Linda," on the Monday fol- 
lowing, a public notice appeared, placarded in all parts 
of the house, stating that at a late hour Mr. Sims 
Reeves had refused to sing the part of Carlo, and that 
Signor Gardoni had undertaken, "at a very brief 
notice," to supply his place. The change was not 



224 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

greatly to be regretted, for the popularity of Gardoni 
aided him, and he sang his best. On the morrow, there 
appeared in all the principal daily prints a long letter 
from Mr. Sims Beeves, protesting against the interpre- 
tation given to his refusal, and asserting that he had 
only accepted an engagement at Her Majesty's Theatre 
on the express stipulation that he should be cast for the 
part of Edgardo'va. the "Lucia," and other principal 
tenor parts ; and that finding he was not to sing in a 
forthcoming representation of the first named opera, 
he considered his contract annulled, and himself at 
liberty to withdraw. To this communication a firm 
denial was given in another letter from Mr. Balfe, the 
conductor, in which that gentleman affirmed that no 
such stipulation had ever been made — an affirmation he 
was able to maintain, inasmuch as he himself had 
signed the contract made with Mr. Keeves ; and that 
moreover the coveted part could not have been promised 
to him, it having been in the possession of Signor Gar- 
doni six weeks before the engagement of the English 
vocalist. To this powerful counter-statement no answer 
was forthcoming, and here the matter would probably 
have dropped, had not some injudicious friends of the 
English tenor endeavoured to create a popular demon- 
stration in the shape of a cry for " Sims Reeves " on 
the appearance of Gardoni as Edgardo a few nights 
afterwards. This so-called demonstration, however, 
was quickly subdued by the help of the audience, and 
finally died out, simply from want of supporters. 

The second appearance of Madame Tadolini was as 
Norma, in "Don Pasquale." Brilliant without finish, 
and perhaps also without elegance, the celebrated prima 
donna nevertheless elicited in this her only part after 



TADOLINL 225 

the " Linda," a great amount of applause, arid may 
again be said to have achieved a success. Brilliancy 
and vivacity are 'Helling" qualities with a miscellaneous 
audience. But the opportunities afforded this clever 
singer were few. One star shone with too powerful a 
light in the operatic sphere to allow any other star, how- 
ever radiant, to sparkle with in its legitimate lustre. It 
was difficult, indeed almost impossible, both for Cruvelli 
and Tadolini to shed their really bright rays, whilst the 
great planet Jenny Lind was in the ascendant. Of the 
two ladies, Cruvelli had the better chance of winning fame 
in England, since she had commenced her career earlier 
in the year, before the arrival of the all-absorbing 
" Jenny." She accordingly maintained her footing ; 
whilst the sister " star," Tadolini, set below the horizon 
of the Italian stage at the end of the season, once and 
for ever. 

A similar lot attended in some degree all the efforts 
of the great dancers during the " Lind " season. The 
ballet, indeed, still boasted its admirers — in some in- 
stances its exclusive admirers — and a certain degree of 
interest and excitement could be ensured by any novel 
experiment in the choreographic department. But when 
all tongues were exclusively occupied by one name, how 
could they find accents to talk of other operatic topics, 
as in the olden time ? Carlotta Grisi and the inventive 
Perrot, Cerito, and St. Leon, with Eosati and Marie 
Taglioni, formed an ensemble as great and effective as 
any known in the " palmy days " of the ballet. They 
danced in ballets old and new — in " La Vivandiere," 
" Alma," " Les Elements," and in the once famous 
" Pas des Deesses," in " Les Quatre Saisons," also in a 
new ballet divertissement, one of the charming conceptions 

Q 



226 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of Perrot, so fertile in invention and so skilful in execu- 
tion. In this ycLS the four great danseuses were com- 
bined in that exquisite rivalry which had created so 
great an excitement in " all London " in previous years. 
The same amount of enthusiasm, and even of extrava- 
gant applause, was awarded, in all appearance, to this 
new combination as had been shewn on previous displays 
of the united forces. Admiration was lavished, bouquets 
were flung in showers, gloves torn, and danseuses re- 
called as of yore. But the ballet was no longer 
the " town talk." The ungrateful town could find 
tongue but for one object — Jenny Lind — Jenny Lind, to 
whom the nobility, and gentry, and even the clergy of 
England offered their respectful homage, and opened 
their country houses; Jenny Lind, the practical and 
living heroine of domestic drama, the prolific dispenser 
of world-wide charities, of whose private life every detail 
was caught up and diffused far and wide, with as much 
interest and eagerness as was every " trait " connected 
with her brilliant public career. 

Under these circumstances, the season of 1848 came 
to its close, having proved, in a financial point of view, 
far more remunerative than the preceding one, in 
which so much had been absorbed by the extra 
expenses entailed by Jenny's vacillations. " Le Roi est 
mort," says old French ceremonial custom, " Vive le 
Roi !" The season of 1848 was no sooner departed, 
than anxious thoughts and cares arose for the season of 
1849. Every necessary preparation, however, was ham- 
pered by harassing doubts and fears. Jenny Lind, now the 
one great object of attraction, had not signed an engage- 
ment for the coming year — still hesitated to sign — would 
not say "yes" or " no." Till the fiat, for good or other- 



JENNY lind's "toukn^e." 227 

wise could be obtained, all expectation was vague and 
disquieting, and, what was worst of all, every specula- 
tion was necessarily in abeyance. 

During the period of these hopes and fears. Made- 
moiselle Lind, in accordance with a portion of her en- 
gagement made for the year 1848, was absent in the 
provinces and in Ireland, upon a tournee (as such a 
journey was termed in artist language), with a select 
company, of which Eoger, the celebrated French tenor, 
Beletti, and Federico Lablache, were the principal 
members. In Birmingham, Cheltenham, Manchester, 
Liverpool, Newcastle, Glasgow, York, Dublin, Bristol, 
Worcester, Gloucester, and other places, Jenny Lind ap- 
peared — now at the theatres in some of her more admired 
characters ; now in the concert-room, as circumstances 
or policy dictated. These appearances were accom- 
panied by demonstrations, in which the provinces seemed 
resolved to outdo the metropolis in frantic enthusiasm. 
Mademoiselle Lind's tournee yielded me a certain profit, 
but not so considerable as might have been expected, 
owing to the vast amount of expenses — a sum of £10,000 
falling to the share of the prima donna herself. Her 
excursion, prolonged into the latter months of the year, 
wore the appearance of a queenly " progress." Details 
of all her performances, or numerous "traits," and 
anecdotes of the " Swedish Nightingale " filled the pro- 
vincial papers, and were re-echoed in the London prints. 

Little by little, during the winter, rumours had crept 
abroad, and had even found a place in the public papers, 
that Jenny Lind had fallen under the infiuences of an 
adviser highly placed in the hierarchy of the church, 
who had used all his powers of eloquence to persuade 
the singer that out of respect to herself and to religion, 

q2 



228 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

she was bound to quit the stage. Many of the better- 
judging would not credit the report that a bishop, whilst 
enjoying a reputation for liberality and tolerance, had 
endeavoured to detach the artist from the stage, instead 
of encouraging her to remain in a sphere wherein her 
bright example might continue to exert a purifying in- 
fluence. Nevertheless, the belief gained ground that, 
from whatever source they proceeded, powerful influences 
were at work upon the mind of the young lady to induce 
her to abandon the stage for ever, as a profession incom- 
patible with true religious feeling, and even with moral 
propriety. 

Whatever exaggeration there may possibly have been 
in these rumours, it is more than probable that some 
foundation for them did really exist. Vaccillating as 
the young singer was known to be, there must have 
been a painful struggle in her mind relative to the advice 
offered her to abandon her profession.* At one time she 
resolved to submit to this influence, at another she 
seemed unhappy at the thought of extinguishing what 
had been the hope and aim of her girlhood, the ambi- 
tion and pride of her womanhood. Thus all was 
indecision' — all perplexity. One day the wavering lady 

* This " advice," I have since learned from undoubted authority, 
was not proffered to Mademoiselle Lind in reference to any dislike 
of her profession. The estimable prelate here alluded to was in- 
duced to believe that Jenny Lind, though desiring earnestly to quit 
the stage, felt compelled to remain from a sense of obligation to- 
wards her director, whom she had, perhaps unadvisedly, encouraged 
to expect that she would stand by him for another season. The 
kind counsels of the bishop and his respected family went solely 
to the point of sustaining the young singer's own decision, suppos- 
ing it to be truly taken by her, against the importunity of her 
theatrical friends and " confreres." 



DOUBTFUL PROSPECTS. 229 

declared she would abide by the counsel of a valued 
friend, who advised her on no account to relinquish her 
career ; and on the next she would recall her promise, 
and let it be announced that she " could not come." 

Friends of long date and long acquired sympathies 
urged her not to give way to counsels founded on mis- 
taken views of her interests, or to take a step which 
she would eventually regret. Affectionate solicitude 
endeavoured to steady a mind, evidently harassed and 
torn by remonstrances of varied character. Her state 
of indecision was as injurious to her own peace, as it 
was perplexing and distressing to the manager. And in 
this condition of affairs the season of 1849 drew near. 



230 



CHAPTEK XVII. 

Approach of the Season of 1849 — ^Uncertainty respecting the Engage- 
ment of Jenny Lind — Kmnours ahout the inflijence exercised on 
her by persons of social eminence — The real facts of the case— The 
Jovimey to Paris — ^The meeting with Catalani — ^Digression — ^Notes 
on Rossini. 

The year 1849 had commenced — the opening of the season 
drew nearer and nearer — and still the hopes, fears, and 
anxious doubts relative to the re-engagement of Made- 
moiselle Jenny Lind were not fully and entirely set at 
rest. Kept in a state of harassing suspense as to the 
reappearance on the stage of her who had proved in 
latter years my chief attraction, I was naturally unable 
to form any definite plans or to conclude any decided 
arrangements. More than .ever I felt the force of the 
wearied exclamation of the celebrated Marshal Saxe, " I 
would rather command an army of 100,000 men, than 
attempt to direct an opera corps f^ and with still greater 
earnestness might he have said it, had his most reliable 
" Lieutenant " refused to declare whether he would fight 
or no. 

The public prints, which had hitherto made regretful 
and painful allusions to the supposed religious influences 
in high quarters brought to bear upon the susceptible 
temperament of the Swedish singer, in order to induce 



A PERIOD OF SUSPENSE. 231 

her to relinquish the stage as a profession, now (about 
the month of February) began to teem with hints re- 
specting influences of a more direct nature exercised 
upon the young lady to the same intent. Soon it was 
positively asserted by these indiscreet chroniclers, that 
she was engaged, and would shortly be married to a 
young gentleman of good family, related to an emi- 
nent banker. Little by little the rumour spread that 
it was the intended bridegroom whose religious scruples 
had induced the prima donna to express her desire of 
leaving the stage for ever. Some of the principal 
organs of the press evinced much indignation at the 
slur thrown upon a whole profession ; some loudly re- 
monstrated with the wavering singer ; some with gentle 
words urged the fallacy of her quitting a profession of 
which she had been " the pride and ornament," and 
which " could neither contaminate her or degrade her 
either morally or socially." That her mind was in a 
state of harassing perplexity there can be no doubt. 
At last it was publicly announced that the " Swedish 
Nightingale " would again sing in public, but in concerts 
only, and that those concerts were to be held in Exeter 
Hall. Exeter Hall ! Was I, then, to be entirely 
thrown over ? 

In this state of affairs, subscribers, who had looked 
for Jenny Lind as the main attraction of the forthcom- 
ing season, naturally held back. Even the Court 
remained undecided. No box was to be taken for Her 
Majesty, the Queen, until it was known whether the 
favourite prima donna was, or was not, to appear upon 
the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre ; or, at all events, 
until a definitive programme could be issued. Now, it 
was impossible for a director, while all was yet in abey- 



232 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

ance, to put forward to the public an oifficial prospectus 
of the season, by which the future fortunes of the 
theatre were to stand or fall. I could do no more than 
send out a written circular to the Court, the principal 
subscribers, and the press, detailing what my arrange- 
ments might probably or possibly be. Many of the 
principal frequenters of the theatre held on by the 
manager " through thick and thin." Many more looked 
on and waited, and asked — " Is Jenny Lind to act ?" 

The real condition of affairs will be understood more 
truly after the perusal of what follows. The leading 
facts have been furnished by a friendly pen : — 

The public feeling, as has been said, exhibited itself in various 
forms of disappointment and discontent when it was reported that 
Mademoiselle Lind would probably soon withdraw from the opera 
stage. It was affirmed that a late respected prelate had used his 
influence with the young prima donna to induce her to retire from 
■the theatrical world, and had urged it on i;he ground of religious 
motives. These rumours spread through all ranks, and were echoed 
from the njost distant comers of the kingdom ; nevertheless, the 
causes were altogether independent of this supposed pressure on the 
part of her respected friends. 

It was about the latter part of the year 1848, that a young gen- 
tleman, of creditable birth and position, and of good connections, 
became honoured with Mademoiselle Lind's preference over all 
other aspirants (and these were numerous) to her favour. An en- 
gagement, not for a " season," but ior life, was in due course con- 
tracted between the parties, and down to the spring of 1849 there 
was every reason to suppose that the fair Swede would become 
:" one of us," by her marriage with an Englishman. 

But it came to pass that, pending the arrangements necessary to 
secure to the lady the right over her own property, a decided aver- 
sion to the employment of her talent in any form in public was 
manifested by the gentleman. To so great an extent did this ob- 
jection proceed, that Mademoiselle Lind's artist pride and self- 
respect were hurt ; for although she had for some time past re- 



LIND AND CATALANI. 233 

solved to retire from the stage, she by no means intended to 
renounce all other forms of public performance. And thus it fell 
out that, after long and unsatisfactory discussions, the gentleman 
stiU adhering pertinaciously to his objection. Mademoiselle Lind 
was prevailed upon, by the most esteemed and most far-sighted of 
her English friends — including the bishop and his lady, and the 
friend so often alluded to, with whom she had formed a friendship 
through her Swedish relatives — ^Mademoiselle Lind then was, in 
the month of May, 1849, prevailed ilfTon to break off the engage- 
ment she had formed with the young officer. Not, however, until 
the four farewell performances had been given. 

So ended the history of " Jenny Lind's " matrimonial affair — 
an affair respecting which much " talk " was circulated, and ex- 
tremely little was known. Immediately after the rupture above 
narrated. Mademoiselle Lind quitted London, and repaired to Paris, 
Avhere she joined her English friend, then residing in that city for 
the benefit of her health. 

While treating of Mademoiselle Lind as a thea- 
trical vocalist, I will allow myself a digression, in 
order to describe her meeting at Paris with another 
celebrated artist of a former period. For the facts I am 
again indebted to a friendly pen : — 

Whilst Jenny Lind was in Paris, her distinguished precursor of 
forty years, Madame Catalani, happened to have arrived there also, 
and nearly at the same moment. She had for many years remained 
stationary in her charming home at Florence, firmly resisting all 
jpersuasion to leave it for distant journeys. But shortly before 
Jenny Lind's arrival in Paris, Madame Vivier, Madame Catalani's 
daughter, had lost her husband ; and as he was a Frenchman, she 
found it necessary to visit Paris in order to go through certain 
legal forms before taking possession of her share of his property. 
Madame Catalani, unable to resist her daughter's earnest wish 
that she would accompany her on this urgent occasion, accordingly 
set forth, and they crossed the Alps together. As French news- 
papers are not in the habit of chronicling the arrivals and de- 
partures of visitors to the capital, it might never have come to 
Jenny Lind's knowledge that Catalani was in the same city with 



234 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

herself, had it not been for the accidental circumstance that the 
Italian lady was intimately acquainted with the English ambassador 
and his lady. These had known Madame Catalani at Florence many 
years, during which the Marquis of Normanby was British minister 
at the Tuscan Court, and had always maintained a friendly inter- 
course with her from that time. 

Now, Mrs. G , being also acquainted with the ambassador 

and Lady Normanby, she received an invitation one morning from 
their excellencies (in which her guest's name was included) to meet 
Madame Catalani at dinner. On communicating this invitation to 
Mademoiselle Lind, she broke forth into joyous exultation. "It 
has long been the fond wish of my heart," she said, " to be brought 
face to face with that great artist." She had always felt it to be a 
hopeless desire, since Catalani never would leave Florence, she had 
heard, but of aU the bygone celebrities in that walk of art 
which she herself had pursued, Catalani was the one whom she 
most longed to see, &c., &c. 

It is in truth worth noting, that Catalani's former career and re- 
putation in England offered the nearest affinity to that of Jenny 
Lind. Both had enjoyed unbounded popularity, and that in the 
provinces as weU as in the capital. Both had received social at- 
tentions from the nobility and gentry of the land; both had received 
large sums of money for their performances; both were of un- 
sullied private character ; as a singer and an actress, Catalani per- 
haps had excelled most of her contemporaries, and it was likewise 
Jenny Lind's good fortune to own this double combination of 
talent in her turn. 

The invitation in question was thankfully accepted by Mr. andMrs. 

G , and by Mademoiselle Lind; but the curiosity and profound 

interest long felt by the latter about Madame Catalani, made her 
now impatient to obtain an interview with the Italian lady prior to 
the meeting at the Embassy, where the restraints imposed by the 
"locale " might possibly check the fuU expression of their mutual 
surprise and pleasure. Jenny accordingly set out one forenoon for 
Madame Catalani's lodgings (situate " au troisieme etage," in the 
Eue de la Paix), and sent in her name by the servant. It acted 
like a talisman upon the old cantatrice, who hastened out to wel- 
come her distinguished visitor with heartfelt delight. She con- 
ducted Jenny into her salon, where they conversed together for 



LIND AND CATALANI. 235 

some time, with all the eagerness of artistic nature and warm sym- 
pathy. Catalani had known nothing of Mademoiselle land's pre- 
sence in Paris, so that she was absolutely enchanted with this un- 
expected good fortune. She said that she had feared such a 
chance would never befall her, much as she had longed to see the 
celebrated singer who had excited the English mind in away which 
recalled to her memory her own past triumphs. After conversing 
about half an hour, they parted, each rejoicing at the prospect of 
meeting so soon at the ambassador's table. 

The dinner-party at the Embassy was a small one, no other 

company being invited except Mr. and Mrs. G , Mademoiselle 

Lind, Madame Catalani and her daughter, and one English 
gentleman, a well-known amateur of the opera ; the secretary of 
Embassy, and a sister of the Ambassadress being also present. 
After dinner, the weather being warm the party strolled in the 
garden attached to the Embassy — Catalani and Jenny Lind talking 
much together. In the evening, some little embarrassment arose 
about asking Jenny Lind to sing, because, as no one ever refuses a 
request made by the representative of majesty, the Marchioness 
considerately forbore to place the young Swede in a position of 
difficulty. But Catalani, who was burning vsdth curiosity to hear 
Jenny Lind sing, perceived that there was some hesitation, 
went up to the " Nightingale," and asked her with grace and 
earnestness to oblige the company with a song, adding, " C'est 
la vieille Catalani qui desire vous entendre chanter, avant de 
mourir !" 

Such an appeal from such a person, overcame all Jenny's habi- 
tual dislike to sing in private society. She sat down to the piano, 
and after a few bars of prelude, gave her incomparable "Non 
credea mirarti," playing the accompaniment herself. 

Now, the sahn at the Embassy was exceedingly ill-adapted for 
vocal display, being crowded with stuffed sofas, chairs, and other 
heavy furniture, curtains inclusive. Jenny Lind's beautiful voice 
was consequently heard under sensible disadvantage; moreover, 
she had to sing in a sitting posture instead of standing up. Never- 
theless, the many obvious merits of her style, taste, and execution 
enchanted the Italian ear of Catalani, who sat on the ottoman in 
the centre of the room, enjoying the rare treat, rocking her body 
to and fro with delight and sympathy, and murmuring (loud enough 



236 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

to be overheard by Mrs. G , who sat by her side), " Ah ! 

la bella cosa che la musica, quando si fa di quella maniera !" — and 
again, " Ah ! la carissima ! quanto bellissima !" Of course 
expression of cordial thanks and admiration on the part of all 
present followed the performance ; and before separating for the 
night, Jenny was good enough to sing one or two more " arias " 
(among which "Ah ! non G-iunge " was included), to the renewed 
gratification of the interesting " ex-prima donna." 

A visit to the residence of Mrs. G- speedily followed the 

meeting at the Embassy, when Catalani insisted that Madame 

G and Jenny Lind should dine with her at her apartment. 

These ladies accordingly did so on one evening in the beginning of 
the month of June, 1849, and passed a truly pleasant evening, 
during whifch Catalani recounted anecdotes of her own past career, 
with a vivacity and charm quite remarkable in a person of her 
years. She still showed traces of her former beauty, retaining the 
intelligent beaming eye and the engaging smile of bygone days. 
Among other matters, " I was singing at Lisbon," she said, " when 
quitaa young woman, full of gay spirits; and I remember running 
a foot-race for a wager with one of the English attaches there, and 
it was a hard struggle between us, I assure you. I should have 
won the race, I verily believe, had I not had the Ul-luck to tear 
my ' cale§on,' which thus encumbered my legs, and so the young 
Englishman beat me." 

The sequel to the Catalani story is melancholy. Not many days 
after the pleasant dinner-party at her apartment, it became known 
that this amiable lady was iU. Some said it was an attack of 
cholera — ^that dreadful disease being rife in the French capital at 

the time. Mr. and Mrs. G went shortly afterwards to inquire 

after the sick lady, and learned that she was no more ! The sud- 
denness of her death struck a sad chord upon the heart of Jenny 
Lind, who, having conceived a sincere regard for Madame Catalani, 
felt most painfully affected by the event. Catalani's expression, 
" vous entendre chanter, avant de mourir ! " seemed to the imagi- 
native Swede to have been a sort of "second sight," now that she 
was in truth " departed." 

The party broke up about this period, traversing the city of 
Paris on June 13th, on which day it was declared to be " in a 
state of siege " (though scarcely any signs of disturbance were 
apparent), to reach the Great Northern Railway. 



NOTES ON CATALANl. 237 

So ends the narrative. Turning to some hasty notes 
of travel that I myself made in the year 1846, 1 find the 
following entry relative to Madame Catalani: — 

Tuesday. — ^Went with French to Catalani's villa. Conversa- 
tion with her. Quiet at first. Became animated when talking of 
England and her former career. Sun-setting, and shining on her 
countenance. A great deal of poetry in her conversation. She 
told me she received her early education in a convent. She sang 
in the choir at the age of thirteen. Her voice was heard above 
the rest ; and the priest and monks applauded, until restrained by 
the bishop, who was scandalised by the circumstance. Her master 
was the celebrated singer, Marchesi. She first appeared at Venice. 
Being invited by the Court of Portugal, she went to Lisbon. Re- 
mained there four years. Accepted an engagement for England. 
Passed through Paris. The Due de MontebeUo having spoken of 
her to the Emperor Napoleon, she was invited to sing before him. 
He immediately rose from his seat, rushed forward, and said to his 
chamberlain, "Ella est la chanteuse de ma Gour." Catalani 
replied, " Je ne le veux pas. Je veux absolument aller en Anglewrre." 
The Emperor turned his back, but gave orders that she should not 
have passports. She, however, obtained them for herself and 
family by bribing Talleyrand's Secretary, and took with her some 
English detenus. French told me that Catalani fell in love with 
her husbahd. Monsieur Vallabrecque, from seeing him in the pit 
during a performance. 

We were joined by the husband. He told me that he had 
directed the opera in Paris, and had also had a great deal to do 
with our opera in England, and had lost greatly in these affairs. 
I promised to, dine with them to-morrow. Catalani, speaking of 
FrezzoUni, said, " Voila par example une artiste qui me plait." One 
of her observations in speaking of genius among artists, "II y a 
meme des danseuses qui ont de la poe'sie dans les jamhes." When she 
played " Semiramide,"* and the actors, on presenting themselves 
and taking leave, approached to touch her hand, Catalani re- 
monstrated, saying, " It is not usual to touch Queens, far less so 
proud and powerful a monarch as Semiramis." She said, when she 
had a part to study, she used to read the history of the subject. 

Some additional entries relating to other eminent 
artists occur in this same year : 

* Portogallo's " Semiramide." 



238 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Sunday at Bologna. Saw Rossini. Walked out with me. He 
explained to me Ms motives for declining to occupy himself further 
with composition. I reasoned with him. I even told him there 
was something of selfishness in the resolution. His reluctance 
seems to arise from the uncertain character of the public. He 
said, " To be sure, if a man has children he ought not to cease work- 
ing, &c., &c." Dined with him. His observations are highly 
spirituel. His favourite author is MachiaveUi. 

Rossini spoke of the Congress of Verona, which was sitting 
whilst he was composing his " Semiramide " for Venice. Prince 
Metternich, at the Congress, he said, led them all — his manner emi- 
nently persuasive. Said it was he who planned the marriage of 
the Emperor with the Archduchess Maria Louisa.* 

Monday. — Rossini visited me. Among other things, he observed, 
"It is impossible to judge of the qualities of a singer for the stage by 
hearing her only in a room. I have been deceived over and over 
again ; and if any one says they can judge, you may say that I, 
Rossini, say the contrary." He gave as the reason for the scarcity of 
real singers at the present day, that the style of composition formerly 
required that the voice should undergo a severe discipline to qualify 
it to execute the music — now, he said, with the present school, as 
soon as a person knows his notes he is thought qualified to sing. 

I have referred in one of the above notes to the un- 
willingness of Eossini to occupy himself with the per- 
formance of another opera. When Charles Dermoy 
succeeded to the direction of the '* Italiens " at Paris, he 
wrote to Eossini, with whom he was on intimate terms, 
endeavouring by every possible argument to induce the 
composer to abandon his resolution. Eossini, in his 
reply, deeply regretted that he could not send him an 
opera, but, by way of compensation, sent a couple of 
Bologna sausages ! 

Let us close this digressive chapter, and return to the 
season business of 1849. 

* The Prince Bubsequently told me that on this occasion he suggested 
to Rossini the adaptation of a German air — ^the same as our " Life let us 
cherish" — and was charmed shortly afterwards with the ingenious manner 
in which Eossini had treated the theme both in the overture and in the 
opera of " Semiramide." 



239 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

Season of 1849 — Engagement of Alboni, Parodi, and Frezzolini for the 
season of 1849 — ^Efficiency of the " troupe," as a whole — Giuliani — 
Debut of Mademoiselle Parodi — ^Interest taken ia her success by 
Madame Pasta — Jenny Lind consents to sing, in the Theatre, 
the opera of "II Flauto Magico,"of Mozart — Incomplete success of 
the performance — Jenny Lind reappears in Opera — Delight of the 
audience at her return to the boards — Her farewell night described — 
The Director is led to hope that Madame Sontag may return to the 
lyric stage— Good offices of M. Thalberg in bringing this to an issue. 

There was now small chance of my availing myseK of 
the services of Jenny Lind in 1849, and I had only to 
toil over the resources that remained to me, so as to 
work them to the best advantage. At the head of the 
list, in the semi-private prospectus which I had issued, 
stood Mademoiselle Alboni, whose first appearance in 
England at Covent Garden had excited so great a degree 
of enthusiasm. Then were announced Madame Frezzo- 
lini, who had already made her debut at Her Majesty's 
Theatre, but under disadvantageous circumstances of 
health ; Mademoiselle Parodi, well known to be the 
favourite pupil of Pasta, about whose appearance con- 
siderable curiosity was created; Mademoiselle Gazzaniga, 
the favourite privia donna of Turin; and Madame 
Giuliani, known to the Parisian musical public as 
Madame Julian van Gelder. To Gardoni were to be super- 



240 EEMINISCENCES OE THE OPERA. 

added two new tenors : Bordas, a popular singer at the 
" Italiens " at Paris, and Calzolari, a reputed Rossinian 
tenor of great promise. Lablache, Coletti, Beletti, and 
Federico Lablache, still formed the strong phalanx of 
bass voices as before. To the ballet flew back Carlotta 
Grisi, Rosati, Marie Taglioni, and Petit Stephan, under 
the ballet-mastership of Paul Taglioni. The forces 
which I at last marshalled to do battle with the rival 
enemy at Covent Garden, might be said at least to 
make a very goodly show. Other powerful allies, who 
will make their appearance in the somewhat confused., 
drama of the season, were also sought in unexpeeted^ 
regions, with an infinity of expenditure, diplomacy, and 
finesse. 

Her Majesty's Theatre, then, opened on the 15th of 
March, with Alboni, now in the height of her popularity, 
as Cenerentola. The success of this great singer was 
necessarily triumphant ; and the season, in appearance 
at all events, could not have commenced under happier 
auspices. The public is a child in many respects— in 
many respects, too, a spoiled child, a very spoiled child. 
It cried still for its favourite toy — Jenny Lind. How- 
ever brilliant the new toy placed before it for its delecta- 
tion and amusement, it would not take to it as, under 
other circumstances, it might have done. The favourite 
image and idol of the last two years was ever in its 
thoughts. However eminently successful as was the 
debut of Mademoiselle Alboni at Her Majesty's Theatre, 
it hardly carried with it that prestige to which it was 
fairly entitled. Not less brilliant again was the promise 
of the ballet. Although the choreographic work pro- 
duced on the opening night was already well known to 
the London public, as the " Diable a Quaire " (" The 



MADEMOISELLE GIULIANL 241 

Devil to Pay " of the English stage),* it was new to the 
opera boards, and, combining the attractions of Carlotta 
Grisi, Kosati, Marie Taglioni, and Paul Taglioni, offered 
an entertainment unusually brilliant at the (generally 
less favoured) pre-Easter commencement of the season. 
I had conscientiously done ray best to secure a success- 
ful opening under the circumstances ; but still, the han- 
kering of the public for that which it longed for, all the 
more as it seemed beyond its grasp, was undeniable. 

Even another leading card in my hand was played 
before Easter. Mademoiselle Giuliani (Madame Jullian 
van Gelder), who had earned laurels at the then Academic 
Royale (at the period mentioned the Academic Nationale) 
of Paris, in Verdi's riffaciamento of the " Lombardi " 
(entitled "Jerusalem"), appeared in " Ernani." This 
lady's success was undoubted. She was more than 
favourably received by the subscribers, although she 
came at an evil time. Not so fortunate was Bordas, the 
Ernani of the revival, despite the advantages of his 
person, and the vigour of his acting. The London public 
considered his voice harsh and unsympathetic ; and what 

* The history of this old subject shows a peculiar tenacity of 
life. It was originally produced at the London "Theatre Royal," 
in the seventeenth century, as the "Devil of a Wife," and after- 
wards modified into the " Devil to Pay." From London it was 
transferred to France, where it became the subject of an opera 
comique, called "Le Diable a Quatre." Li modern times,it was ran- 
sacked as a grand ballet ; and as such, was again produced in Paris, 
.and transferred to the boards of Drury Lane. It was then used in a 
burlesque form at the Adelphi Theatre, under the title of " Taming 
a Tartar,'' and was eventually composed as an opera by Balfe, 
under the original (English) title of " The Devil's to Pay." Ano- 
ther burlesque on the same subject, by Mr. H. J. Byron, is even 
now performing at the Strand Theatre. 

H 



242 REMINISCENCES .OF THE OPERA. 

favoui' could any other qualities find, in its estimation, 
when the one predominant element failed in attraction ? 
The result was the same when the two new artists ap- 
peared in the " Due Foscari." Mademoiselle Giuliani 
rose more and more in favour. Bordas disappointed no 
expectations, because none had been raised. With the 
attraction of "Le Diablek Quatre," the season struggled 
onwards to the close of its preliminary portion before 
Easter. 



Shortly after Easter appeared Mademoiselle Parodi, 
the favourite pupil and friend of the great Pasta. Upon 
her, it was said, the mantle of the illustrious prima 
donna had descended. Pasta herself had declared that, 
in the person of this object of her solicitude and her 
future hopes, she herself was to rise again before the 
world.- These sentiments were repeated by Madame 
Pasta in a letter to me, in which she recommended ^' la 
mia Teresa " to my care. The delight of the now aged 
prima donna in seeing herself revived in her favourite 
pupil, is apparent in every phrase. She writes: "Plena 
di riconoscenza;" and, in the fulness of her heart, ex- 
claims, " Oh ! beata I'lnghilterra ! Che Dio la renda 
sempra piii felice !" The zealous and eager sympathy 
of the instructress with the pupil was unbounded. 
Mademoiselle Parodi appeared in one of the most 
favourite and celebrated characters of la Pasta, although 
the choice of this rdle de debut was bold and even dan- 
gerous. As has been seen in the quasi failure of Jenny 
Lind herself, the most popular and most adored of all 
prime donne of the time, in the part of Nanna, it was 
impossible even for the most petted of pets to dare to 
undertake the task of rivalry, even in seeming, with the 



PARODI. 243 

one who had been so long associated in English estima- 
tion with the true ideal of the Druid Priestpss. Of all 
Madame Grisi's parts, N^orma was the one in which no 
effort of rivalry was to be endured. The success of 
Mademoiselle Parodi, however, on her first debut, was in 
appearance very great. Moulded as her whole style, 
both as singer and actress, were upon her great proto- 
type, she gave to a new generation an idea of the "Pasta" 
of their fathers; and, with old opera-goers, revived in some 
degree the memories of the past. Her voice was full 
and melodious, but " veiled," like that of her instruc- 
tress, in its upper notes. Her acting was distinguished, 
as had been that of the Siddons of the operatic stage, by 
simple grandeur, rather than by fiery impulse. Her 
success, as has been said, was great on her appearance ; 
but no evening of triumph filled the void left in the 
hearts of the public by the seclusion of Jenny Lind. 

In the meanwhile, one step had already been taken by 
Mademoiselle Lind, in retractation of her resolution to 
appear no more upon the boards of a theatre. After 
considerable discussion between the gentleman with whom 
the future destiny of the young singer was then under- 
stood to be linked, and myself — the stipulation that the 
concerts in which she was to take part, should take place 
at Exeter Hall and at Exeter Hall alone, was waived ; 
and it was announced in the managerial prospectus that 
Mademoiselle Lind would sing in six concerts at Her 
Majesty's Theatre. The first of these "Grand Classical 
Performances," as they were termed, took place (within 
two days of the first appearance of Mademoiselle Parodi) 
on Thursday, the 15th April. The concert consisted of 
a " recital," as it would be called in modern musical 
phraseology, of Mozart's opera of " II Flauto Magico " 

e2 



244 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

in its entirety, in the ordinary concert form, without 
" scenery, dresses, or decorations." 

The result of this experiment was a perfect failure. 
Could it have been otherwise ? Any device to treat a 
lyrical drama as if it were not a drama, or, in other 
words, to cheat a theatrical representation of its neces- 
sary appliances, so as to evade the " stage," could be 
nothing but a failure. The great masterpiece of Mozart^' 
without the essential accessories of scenery and action, 
without the illustrative resources which the composer 
himself contemplated, was simply rendered dreary and 
incomprehensible. ^ Where was the well-known "Jenny 
Lind " crush ? The house was comparatively empty. 
Where was the customary enthusiasm amounting to 
a mania? The applause was cold and feeble. The 
singer, who had been accustomed to hear those same 
walls ring with plaudits, could not but feel chilled at the 
faint and rare echoes of that night, so different from 
the noisy demonstrations of the previous year. The 
" Flauto Magico " was accordingly the first and last of 
these disappointing "grand classical performances," 
permission for which had been with so much difficulty 
wrung from Mademoiselle Lind. J 

The fortunes of the theatre were to be maintained i^ 
this dilemma by Mademoiselle Parodi, in the part of 
Norma, in which she continued to draw satisfactory 
houses ; and by a new ballet, called " Electra ou la 
Pleiade Perdue," composed by Paul Taglioni. This last 
obtained more than the customary share of success, con- 
sidering that pantomimic ballet was beginning gra- 
dually to fall out of favour, the principal part being 
admirably filled by Carlotta Grisi. 

M Achilles retired to his tent, so the " Swedish 



JENNY LIND'S FAKEWELL PERFORMANCES. 245 

Nightingale" had retired to the seclusion of her 
Brompton villa; but unlike the Greek hero, not to 
brood long over her comparative discomfiture. Could 
she retire from before the English public, which had 
raised her upon so high a pedestal, and had bowed down 
and worshipped her so fervently, after an evening 
marked by such a cold, formal, and mortifying recep- 
tion ? It was more than could be expected of a woman 
who, whatever her aspirations or preferences in another 
direction, had the artist soul still stirring strong within 
her. An official announcement soon informed the 
delighted world, that although " Mademoiselle Lind had 
intended to take leave of the subscribers and the public 
in a series of concerts," yet " it having been urged that 
concerts would not be regarded as equally satisfactory," 
she had " generously consented to suspend her inten- 
tion of retiring from the stage," and would therefore ap- 
pear in a few more performances. This resolution — a 
l^rdy one, scarcely compensating the inconveniences 
caused by previous refusals — was nevertheless hailed 
with satisfaction by both public and manager. 

On Thursday, the 26th of April, the would-be fugi- 
tive prima donna reappeared on the boards of Her 
Majesty's Theatre, in her great part of "La Sonnambula." 
Many of the self-styled " interpreters " of public sen- 
timent pretended that the chain of sympathy which 
had attached her to the public had been too suddenly 
snapped asunder to be restored to its former strength ; 
that the tide of popular feeling, untowardly checked 
when it had reached to such an unprecedented height, 
had been diverted, and would never flow in the same 
channel again. But all these suppositions turned out 
utterly ill-founded. Never had Jenny Lind been re- 



246 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA, 

ceived with a more enthusiastic welcome, or with accla- 
mations more fervent, from a house crowded to the ceil- 
ing, than on the night in which she returned once more 
to the stage. The scene of excitement was perhaps 
more agitating than any former scenes of bygone tri- 
umphs. It seemed not only as though a favourite idol 
had been restored to the public, but as if a child, whom 
some difference had temporarily estranged, had been 
received back to the arms of its family. In truth, the 
emotion on both sides appeared equally profound. The 
evening was signalised also, it may be said en passant 
(for every other consideration seemed utterly swamped 
in the one exciting event), by the first appearance 
of Signor Calzolari, an excellent and most satisfactory 
young tenor of (what was denominated) " the good old 
school." 

In " Lucia di Lamraermoor," in "La Figlia del Eeggi- 
mento," and in " Roberto," Mademoiselle Lind resumed 
and terminated the course of her brilliant performances,- 
which were only four in number. It was generally un- 
derstood that her appearance in that opera in which she . 
had first stood before an English public, was to be her 
last upon any stage. Perhaps in this matter Made- 
moiselle Jenny Lind may be cited as a rare and almost 
solitary instance of artistic stability in the announce- 
ment of a " last farewell." Past generations (probably 
in all times since opera heroines have trod the boards) 
have known so many " last farewells," and " positively 
last farewells," and " final farewells," to which there ; 
was no finality, that a " last farewell " announcement 
has come to be greeted by the practised play-goer with 
an incredulous smile. But Jenny Lind was firm in her 
purpose, even when tortured by conflicting influences* 



DEPARTURE OF LIND, 247 

The night of Thursday, May the 18th, 1849, did really 
witness her " last appearance upon any stage." Jenny 
Lind retired in earnest, not, it is true, from the exercise 
of. her profession, but from the theatrical boards, and 
this in the very zenith of her powers. Never perhaps 
during the whole of her career was there an occa- 
sion on which she bore away so great a triumph 
as when she appeared in the true sphere of her 
vocation for the last time This was a night of even un- 
wonted sympathy and enthusiasm — a night of ap- 
plause that seemed to know no bounds — a night of re- 
calls, and again recalls, and one more last recall, as 
though the public could not part from her, or bear the 
thought of never looking upon her again. And so, with 
such heartfelt adieux, was Jenny Lind finally lost to 
the stage. 

Though Jenny Lind was indeed gone from us, she con- 
tinued on friendly terms with her late manager. In the 
July of the same year, she wrote thus (in English) from 
Schlangenbad, whither she had gone to recruit her health, 
somewhat affected by her late mental agitation : " I cannot 
refuse myself the pleasure of communicating to you 
how truly happy I am over the immense success the 
Countess of Eossi enjoys by Her Majesty's Theatre, and 
at the same time congratulating you to this fortunate 

event What I feel relieved I cannot tell it ! A 

heavy weight is gone from me. I now can with all 
truth tell myself that not alone my presence is now not 
the slightest necessary, but much better supplied ! And 
now you have nothing more to complain of ; neither to 
make me the slightest trouble, even in the most distant 
future, about my going back for to sing by your opera ; 
and this assurance is really a great comfort to me !" 



248 REMINISCENCES OE THE OPERA. 

The blank was great — the void scarcely to be filled ; 
but, as has already been intimated, I had still a secret 
winning card in my hand — a card which circumstances 
had forbidden me to reveal, but to play which, the time 
seemed now come. To explain the history of this 
" card," it will be necessary to turn back to a far earlier 
period. 

For some time past I had conceived hopes, from 
certain rumours which had reached my ears, that the 
Countess Eossi, the once admired Mademoiselle Sontag, 
the precursor of Jenny Lind in a previous generation, 
the adored of all dilettanti, might be induced, in spite of 
her high position as wife of the Sardinian envoy at the 
Court of Berlin, to return to the stage. A generation, 
it is true, had already passed away since the Sontag had 
taken her leave of an English public on the boards of 
the then " King's Theatre." But I had learned, on the 
most reliable authority, that, in spite of time, and 
absence from the exercise of her profession, the voice of 
the Countess Kossi was as brilliant, as fresh, as pure, as 
it had been more than twenty years ago ; that her mar- 
vellous execution was unchanged ; that her personal ap- 
pearance, although she had been for so many years a wife 
and a mother, had lost but little of that charm of beauty 
and grace which had exercised so great a fascination 
over all hearts in times gone by. That such should be 
the case amounted to the marvellous and incredible. 
But I had faith ; and, strange to tell, that faith 
was based upon a truthful and solid foundation. 
Mademoiselle Sontag was, then, my next " card ;" but 
the hindrances to this my newly-conceived project were 
great : the diplomatic manoeuvres to be spun, unravelled, 
and finally woven into a tangible web, were delicate and 



OVEKTURES TO MADAME SONTAU. 24 D 

difficult of handling. Where, indeed, was diplomacy 
ever to be used, if not in dealing with an ambassa- 
dress ? * 

Early in February I opened the campaign by 
establishing a communication with the Countess Rossi 
through the Earl of Westmoreland, at that time the 
English Minister at the Court of Prussia. But this 
move was apparently " a mistake." The possibility of 
the return of Madame Sontag to the stage depended 
upon political circumstances Influencing the diplomatic 
arrangements of the Sardinian Court. To take a foreign 
diplomatist into his confidence, under such delicate 
circumstances, was not permissible to the Sardinian 
Envoy, even had such a contingency as the return of his 
wife to the stage been looked upon as possible; 
and it was more than doubtful, notwithstanding what 
had reached my ears, that such a thought had really 
ever been entertained. It is no matter for surprise, 
consequently, to learn that the Earl of Westmoreland's 
reply to me was to the effect that, although the pro- 
posal, conveyed in such delicate terms, was considered 
flattering, an acceptance of it was quite out of the 
question ; " as," adds the English Minister, " I was well 
aware it would be." 

But I had another ally at Berlin ; one who, in this espe- 
cial conjuncture, proved at once a more judicious and more 
powerful agent. Where the ambassador had failed, the 

* A strange notion has prevailed, that Scribe founded his comic 
opera of " L'Ambassadrice " upon the story of the return of 
Madame Sontag to the stage. But such a tradition would be the 
greatest calumny against her excellent husband, Count Kossi. The 
best refutation exists in the fact that the opera of Scribe and 
Auber appeared many years before the event here narrated. 



250 llliMINlSCENCES OF TUE OPERA. 

artist might prevail. The great pianist, Sigismund 
Thalberg, always a staunch friend of mine, undertook 
the negociation. The artist mind could and did open 
itself to the fellow artist. Early in April, Thalberg 
wrote to me to the following purport, showing, at least, 
that the idea was entertained : " Nothing positive is 
decided ; but there is every hope of eventual success. 
The prospect of returning to the stage seems to afflict the 
Countess greatly; she even shed tears at the thought of 
it ! But economy is the order of the day in Piedmont, 
on account of the millions to be re-imbursed to Austria. 
Twelve envoys have already been recalled, and pos- 
sibly her husband may be the next. Or only a 
charge d'affaires may be henceforth appointed, and 
salaries may be reduced one-half. Under such circum- 
stances the Countess feels that the sacrifice may become 
imperative upon her, for the sake of tlie future fortunes 
of her children. In a week, perhaps, her fate may be 
decided, and then she will write immediately to London. 
I told her how important it was to be able to announce 
her ; but she declared that the whole negociation must 
depend upon the strictest secrecy." 

The terms (£6000 for six months) were also arranged 
at this interview, and even the parts in which the return- 
ing jjnma donna should reappear were formally discussed. 
Not only then was the proposal of the engagement of 
Madame Sontag at Her Majesty's Theatre not " out of 
the question," but it was considered by the lady under 
all its bearings. 

During April and May I was in direct correspondence' 
with the Count and Countess Eossi. But all was still 
in doubt and abeyance. The course of operatic ar- 
rangements seems ever destined to run as little smooth as 



NEGOTIATIONS WITH MADAME SONTAG. 251 

"the course of true love." At first the Countess 
writes : " When M. Tbalberg was here, everything led 
me to suppose that in a few days I might be able to 
accept your proposition. But political events since 
then seem to have consolidated the position of Piedmont, 
and you will doubtless comprehend that it is not at such 
a moment I can take a resolution, to be justified only 
by an absolute necessity." " I am grieved not to be 
able to give you a more satisfactory answer. But you 
must admit that I have no coritroul over circumstances. 
The question, 'to be or not to be,' will probably be 
decided this month, or in the commencement of the 
next (May), and as soon as a decision can be taken, you 
shall have immediate intelligence," Again on the 4th 
of May, she writes : *' Decisive steps have been taken 
'at Turin. By the 15th of May, at the latest, we must 
receive a categorical reply. Should it turn out in favour 
of our intentions, I might be in London by the 25th. 
I feel how painfully difficult your position is, and I 
should be indeed happy to be able to terminate your 
cruel uncertainties ; but you cannot fail of understand- 
ing the delicacy and difficulty with which our position 
is environed. As soon as I shall be once more Made- 
moiselle Sontag, your interests shall be solely mine, with 
all my heart and soul," On the 12th of May came 
another letter, which seemed to overthrow all the hopes 
which I had entertained : " Letters have at last arrived 
from Turin," it said, " but they are not favourable to 
our expectations. I am compelled to admit, with regret, 
that every probability of my coming to London this 
year has vanished. It would surely be better for your 
own interests that you should count on me no more. 
Still k dernier mot n'estpas encore dit, and, in the present 



252 REilJNISCENCES Ol" THE OPERA. 

state of things, the slightest incident may change the 
whole course of events." 

Thus did the changes of the political world in those 
days of revolutionary movement mix themselves up with 
the anxieties, uncertainties, and struggles of the manage- 
ment of Her Majesty's Theatre. Nothing could be more 
embarrassing and tantalising than the new difficulty 
into which I was plunged. The winning card was so 
near my hand, and yet I could not grasp it. I could 
not even publish my hopes of being able to play a game 
so obviously favourable to my interests ; for every 
letter enjoined and demanded secrecy relative to 
the public appearance of the fascinating ambassadress 
upon the stage. Well might the lady admit with 
regret that the position in which she was obliged to 
place me was both difficult and painful ! 

It was not until the 9 th of June that I at last received 
letters from both the Count and Countess Rossi, inform- 
ing me that all the political obstacles to the proposed 
plan had been removed ; that their establishment in 
Berlin was to be broken up, and that they would be in 
London towards the end of the month. Terms were 
agreed upon. An engagement, not only for the re- 
mainder of the season of 1849, but for the forthcoming 
season of 1850, was accepted ; and in a very short time, 
after all these delays and hesitations, I was able to pro- 
claim the prize I had obtained, " and to announce the 
reappearance of the celebrated^n'maJonna, Mademoiselle 
Sontag, on the stage of Her Majesty's Theatre, after an 
absence of one-and-twenty years from those boards." 

The announcement was received of course with intense 
interest and curiosity. Middle-aged opera-goers asked 
themselves how they were again to greet the beautiful 



REAPPEARANCE OF SONTAG. 253 

Sontag of their youth; young dilettanti asked themselves 
what they were to expect from the diva of theii- 
fathers. It was a strange state of things. Most 
people shook their heads at the bare notion of the 
assurance that the Sontag could be the Sontag of so 
many previous years ago. The doubts were natural, 
but they were soon to be confirmed or dispelled. 

I went over to Berlin in person to offer to the 
Countess my escort to London ; and on Saturday, the 
7th of July, this interesting debut took place, in Doni- 
zetti's " Linda di Chamouni." The Sontag once more 
trod those boards which had been the scene of her 
early triumphs. The sympathy her reappearance had 
created was evidenced by the enthusiastic, and it may 
be said, affectionate reception with which she was greeted 
by an overcrowded house. The cheering was universal, 
genuine, unusually prolonged. That she herself should be 
atfirst deeply affected, even to tears, at a greeting so heart- 
felt and spontaneous, was well conceivable. The revival 
of old memories, at those exciting and once familiar 
sounds, joined to the thought of the causes which had 
placed her in that arena, must have moved her pro- 
foundly. A glance at the box where sate the husband 
and children for whose sake this great and noble sacri- 
fice had been made, gave her the necessary courage. 
Sontag subdued her emotion. In a few minutes she was 
once more the artist, and the artist alone. 

That a halo of interest was thrown around the high- 
placed lady, who had descended from her pedestal, and 
quitted the pride and charm of her social and domestic 
life to resume professional duties, long since laid 
aside, was perfectly intelligible. But it was not as the 
heroine of a romance of real life that Sontag reappeared ; 



254 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEHA. 

not as the Countess, who from well-appreciated motives 
had reassumed the dramatic mantle. It was as the 
artist alone that she had come to earn the suffrages of 
the public — as the artist alone that she desired to be 
judged. It was to sound judgment, and not to mere 
curiosity and sympathy, however legitimately awakened, 
that she appealed. And in that judgment she found 
her reward. Her return to the stage was one long 
triumph. 

All had felt that it must be a marvel, if, after more 
than twenty years, this gifted prima donnCt ebuld 
return with her powers unimpaired. Yet the 
marvel was here — an unquestionable fact. Her voice 
was " as fresh, pure, and beautiful as ever." Madame 
Sontag brought back an artistic skill, matured and 
perfected by the continued study which, since her 
retirement, had been to her a labour of love. The 
beauty, which had exercised so great a fascination 
over an elder generation, was, strange to say, but little 
changed. It was remodelled rather than effaced, whilst 
the figure seemed almost untouched by time. The pleasing 
contour of the face, the beaming and expressive eye, 
and, above all, the winning smile which formerly had 
stolen away so many hearts, were all there. Men de- 
clared that with the most clear and searching of opera- 
glasses they could not give her more than five-and- 
twenty. She was, in truth, a living marvel! And, 
more strange than all, the Sontag who had been deemed 
by a former' generation somewhat deficient as an actress 
(although the most exquisite of soprano singers), was 
discovered to have warmth, animation, expression, even 
power, as a dramatic artist! The fascination of her 
histrionic talent came to be as great as that of her 



THE SONTAG FDROKR. 255 

faultless execution. The public is said to be a " way- 
ward " creature ; but, on the contrary, it is extremely 
diflScult to be moved from prepossessions once formed for 
good or for evil. Whatever change may supervene in 
an artist, the public is loath to admit a change into its 
own formed opinions. Sontag left the stage with the 
reputation of being " no actress." On her return, it was 
almost impossible to persuade this public, wedded to tradi- 
tions, that she was (what really was the case) one of 
the most finished and exquisite histrionic artists. 

Ere long the Sontag furore promised to equal tlie Lind 
mania. The houses were once more crammed. The ex- 
citement of Madame Sontag's performances was nearly as 
uproarious as in the great days of her immediate pre- 
decessor. In spite of powerful rivalry, the fresh " card " 
in ray hand seemed destined to win the game. In the 
" Barbiere di Seviglia," her exquisite finish and grace 
exercised the same fascinating influence as on her first 
appearance. As Amina in the " Sonnambula," she had 
an even more difficult trial to sustain. The part was 
considered the best, as it had been the most celebrated 
of all the great impersonations of Jenny Lind, whose last 
performance of it was recent in the memory of all the 
habitues of Her Majesty's Theatre. The task of 
Madame Sontag, under such circumstances, was bold, 
almost hazardous ; but again she triumphed. Her 
charm in the part was so great, that all thought of com- 
parison was effaced from the minds of her listeners. The 
new Amina was hailed as rapturously as if no rival — 
much less one who was considered beyond the reach 
of competition — had ever existed; and, in spite of all pre- 
possessions, her powers as an actress were now universally 
declared equal to her finished style as a cantatrice. Her 



256 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

rapidly rising progress in public estimation was as steady 
and sure as her debut had been brilliant. 

There were many old opera-goers who recollected the 
sensation created by the Desdemona of Madame Sontag 
in years past. There were some who could remember 
Sontag's performance of this part to the Otello of 
Madame Pasta. This caprice of the latter celebrated 
prima donna, I may remark, was not distinguished by 
any satisfactory results ; but the acting of the part was 
superb, and quite sufficed to throw into shade any his- 
trionic power in the Desdemona, who won her laurels by 
her sweetness of voice and charm of execution. 

Madame Sontag once more appeared as Desdemona ; 
but with execution matured and strengthened, and a his- 
trionic power of which in former times she was not con- 
sidered a mistress, and the opera proved another of her 
great successes. In this opera she was ably supported 
by Moriani, who had now been added to my already long 
list of tenors. In a grand Morning Concert she en- 
raptured her audience by singing in four languages, viz : 
the " Zingari," of Donizetti, in Italian — the great 
scena of " Der Freischiitz," in German — the " With 
Verdure Clad," of the " Creation," in English — and the 
" Grace ! Grace !" of " Eobert le Diable," in French. 

The " Nozze di Figaro," in which the gifted singer 
warbled the part of Susanna with unusual grace and 
feeling (supported by Parodi as the Countess, and Alboni 
as Cheruhino), was the last opera in which Madame 
Sontag appeared during the season of 1849. Her suc- 
cess had been all that could be hoped^far greater 
indeed than had been expected. Under the guise of her 
engaging smile, fortune seemed again to have beamed 
upon the theatre. At all events, the promise for the 



RUBINI INEXORABLE. 257 

ensuing season of 1850 was more cheering under the new 
auspices of Sontag than might have been anticipated a few 
months before. Still the season of 1849 cannot be pro- 
nounced prosperous. The indecisions and harassing events 
of the early part of the season acted disastrously on the 
finances of the establishment. From similar causes of 
donbt, the arrival of Madame Sontag was too late to 
repair fully the dire effects of the past. In my own 
opinion, the retirement of Jenny Lind was "k commence- 
ment de la Jin." 

Amidst all the struggles and difficulties of the season 
of 1849, my activity had been unremitting. When I 
felt my chief prop breaking down beneath me, I had 
stretched forth my hands on every side to seize every 
available reed that might support me. It has been 
seen how the strongest and best support was found in 
Madame Sontag, and how, by means of this plank of 
safety, I once more regained a firm footing. But in the 
meanwhile other chances of help, towards which I had 
anxiously looked, were manifold. Kubini, the great 
tenor, still the object of public regret, had been again 
invoked "to the rescue." "Come once- more," I had 
written ; " you will save a friend — you will save this 
great establishment !" " Your letter has touched me 
profoundly," was the great tenor's answer, " but it 
cannot be. A thousand circumstances render my reap- 
pearance a matter of impossibility. It costs me more 
than you can suppose to persist in this resolution ; but 
I must abide by it — you cannot, must not count on me." 
Further correspondence ensued. Fresh appeals were 
made by the Director of Her Majesty's Theatre ; but 
Eubini was inexorable. 

With Madame Frezzolini I had also been in negocia- 



258 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEEA. 

tion. This celebrated prima donna had not, perhaps, 
quite maintained the position which was considered her 
due, owing, it was said, to adverse circumstances of 
health and spirits. But her success at St. Petersburg 
in the previous winter had been very great. At all events, 
she might form one more possible j)?a?icA« de salut. But 
Madame Frezzolini was engaged for the theatre at 
Moscow after the close of the Imperial Italian Opera at 
Petersburg; and,moreover,the prospect of alongjourney 
in severe weather caused her alarm ; so that the nego- 
ciation failed for that year. The re-engagement of 
Sophie Cruvelli had been warmly urged by the Earl of 
Westmoreland, from Berlin. The lady herself was 
desirous to reappear at Her Majesty's Theatre ; and her 
letter on the subject is a singular self-reproval for her want 
of agreement with her manager during her first engage- 
ment. " Quand je vous ai vu pour la derniere fois," 
she writes, "vousm'avez dit, 'Quand vous serez devenue 
raisonable, ecrivez moi. J'ai lutte avec mon amour 
propre avant de vous avouer que, peut-etre, a Londres je 
n'ai pas tout a fait agi comme j'ai du le faire envers 
vous et dans mon veritable inter§t. Vous voyez bien 
qu'il faut que j'ai bien de la confiance en vous pour ^tre 
franche de cette maniere." But in the confusion of the 
opening of the season when, failing Jenny Lind, so many 
other negociations were pending, it had been impossible 
for the direction to render these suggestions available. 
Cruvelli was only secured for a future day. On every 
side, then, as has been seen, I had endeavoured to repair 
the disaster which had befallen me by the most active 
zeal, by every available resource, and at an enormous 
expense. Alboni, Parodi, and finally Madame Sontag, 
had shone as principal stars in the operatic hemisphere. 



sontag's "tourn:]^e." 259 

But it was hard to shake off the effects of the blow- 
struck by the retirement of Jenny Lind. 

It is curious to see how difficult it was to establish 
credence in the fact that Jenny Lind had positively 
retired from the stage. In a letter written by Mr. Balfe, 
the conductor, in the autumn, from Berlin (in which he 
mentions Madame Fiorentini as an improvable singer 
and actress, and as " the most beautiful creature that 
ever trod a stage "), he speaks of meeting Jenny Lind in 
Frankfort. " She asked a great deal about your pros- 
pects for next season, with very great interest. I used 
all my endeavours to induce her not to quit the stage ; 
and I think that you stand a great chance of her. She 
spoke of you and your managerial affairs with a great 
deal more interest than I ever heard her do before." 
So little reliance would people place in the sincerity and 
resolution of an artist who could wish to quit the scene of 
her triumphs amid the full tide of her popularity ! 

The remainder of the year 1849 was occupied by a 
provincial journey with Madame Sontag. By this 
enterprise, I had justly been expecting to cover the 
deficit of the last troubled season. The success 
of Madame Sontag, as has been said, was great in 
London, but unfortunately it lasted too short a time. 
She had not sung long enough in London, it must be 
supposed, to " warm up " the provinces to that pitch 
of enthusiasm which marked the " progress " of Made- 
moiselle Jenny Lind. The tournee (as it is termed in 
artistic vocabulary) was far from fulfilling my legitimate 
hopes ; while the enormous sums paid to the artists, 
and to the principal lady in particular, were not suffi- 
ciently balanced by the returns to allow me to cover the 
deficit of the past London season. It was signalized, 

s2 



260 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

however, by the generous conduct of Mon&ieur Thalberg 
in refusing to receive the remuneration to which he was 
entitled for his own share of the work in accompanying 
the artists, and also by the animated correspondence 
of the Countess Eossi during the journey — a journey suf- 
ciently fatiguing to one to whom modern artist life, in- 
volving rapid railway travelling, was new- In a letter 
from Exeter, she wrote: — "I mean to recompense myself 
for the loss df that beautiful Edinburgh, by singing the 
•Casta Diva' in the very temple of the Druids, on 
Salisbury. Plain." 

Another event which marked the end of the season of 
1849 must not be passed unnoticed. The failure of the 
rival enterprise of the Italian Opera at Covent Garden 
had resulted in the bankruptcy of Mr. Delafield, the last 
lessee and responsible manager. Overtures had been 
made on the part of the gentlemen connected with the 
recent undertaking to merge both operas in one; 
and advantageous terms were offered to me to retire 
from the management of Her Majesty's Theatre, in order 
to facilitate this design. But in these terms I declined 
to acquiesce. I had already set on foot other schemes 
connected with this vast enterprise. These were no less 
than to obtain the concession to myself of the Italian 
Opera ,in Paris, then in the hands of Eonconi, and to 
combine in my own grasp the two great speculations. 



261 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Provincial Tour of Mademoiselle Sontag — ^A Railway Accident— Sontag 
Concerts in Paris — ^Difficulty in obtaining the SaUe du Con- 
servatoire — Kindness of the President Louis Napoleon — Great suc- 
cess of the Concerts — Resuscitation of the Faubourg St. Germain — 
Season of 1850 — Parodi in " Medea " — Reappearance of Sims 
Reeves — Catherine Hayes — Baucarde — " La Tempesta," by Halevy 
and Scribe — Fete at the "Chancellors" — Reappearance of Pasta — 
The "Black Malibran" — Debut of Fiorentini — ^Direction of the 
" Italiens " at Paris — New Difficulties — ^Victor Hugo and Rachel. 

The professional excursions of Madame Sontag in the 
English provinces, during the winter of 1849, had not, 
as I have remarked, the satisfactory results which were 
legitimately to be expected from them. Many un- 
toward circumstances combined to throw hindrances in 
the way of a more complete success. Local drawbacks^ 
political movements, and, above all, the unusually rigo- 
rous season of the year, seemed leagued together to 
render the journey as disastrous as possible. Misfor- 
tune followed upon misfortune, and an accident, which 
nearly proved fatal to the whole party, including Calzo- 
lari, Federico Lablache, and Piatti, so lamentably af- 
fected the health of the Countess Eossi that she was 
for a considerable time unable to sing. On the 29th of 
December (1849), the artistic "troupe," accompanied 
by Count Rossi, was proceeding from Glasgow to Aber- 



262 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

deen. The weather was fearful — the snow was falling 
in heavy masses, the cold was piercing, the wind 
tempestuous and cutting. At a short distance from 
Laurencekirk, the train ran into a snowdrift of more 
than six feet in depth, and became immoveable. The 
snow-bearing blast was rapidly burying the carriages. 
It was a task not only of difficulty but of extreme 
danger, to rescue the party from their position and bear 
them to the top of the cutting. Fresh risks here 
awaited them from the bitterly cold wind, which was 
perceptibly freezing the human body into insensibility. 
Amidst the blinding snow, the artists were however 
enabled to reach the dwelling of a hospitable farmer, 
where every available aid and comfort was afforded to 
the sufferers. 

Count Eossi, in a letter to me, thus describes the 
" narrow escape :" " Had the heart of Madame de Eossi 
failed her when she found she had to adventure herself 
in the midst of the darkness of the night, with a hurri- 
cane that flung us down one over the other as we left 
the carriages, and in a snowdrift of six feet in depth — 
had she shown less courage and energy, we should 
certainly have had to deplore a fatal result. "We should 
have all been found the next morning frozen dead in 
our carriages. By midnight every trace of them had dis- 
appeared under the snow. Had we had another hundred 
steps to take before reaching the house, I verily believe 
we should have all died by the way. Lablache and my 
groom both fell senseless on reaching the house. The 
former has not yet recovered the use of his fingers, 
which were frozen. Poor Mapleson is still in his bed at 
Laurencekirk. Heaven preserved us from a fatal 
disaster ; but this cruel accident has completely pros- 



A RAILWAY ACCIDENT. 263 

trated Madame de Kossi. Twice she fell, up to the 
waist, in the depths of the snow, and having no change 
of linen, except a pair of stockings lent her by the 
farmer's wife, she was obliged to remain, wet through 
and pierced with cold, until her clothes dried on her 
body by the fireside. You may judge how her , voice 
has suffered in consequence, and how impossible it would 
be for her to sing at the required concerts," &c., &c. 

One of the immediate results of this untoward acci- 
dent was, that the pre-arranged concerts were neces- 
sarily postponed, until time and care should restore not 
only the powers of the shattered prima donna, but those 
of all the artists engaged in the expedition. 

The year 1850 certainly opened inauspiciously for my 
speculations. Visits, however, to Belvoir Castle (the 
Duke of Rutland's), and to Raby Castle (the Duke of 
Cleveland's) — at both of which houses the Count and 
Countess Rossi were received, not only with the con- 
sideration due to them, but with an almost affectionate 
solicitude — proved of material advantage in restoring the 
health and spirits of the lady, and once more giving 
tone to her voice ; so that the provincial concerts were 
consequently resumed, with varying success. 

For some time I had been in Paris, for the purpose of 
arranging a series of concerts, in which Madame Sontag 
was to be the great attraction, both there and also in 
Brussels. To these concerts the Count and Countess 
Rossi were altogether opposed. The lady was unwilling 
to appear, for the first time, in either of these cities, 
otherwise than upon the stage. " Remember, my dear Mr. 
Lumley," wrote the expostulating Count, " that curi- 
osity is one of the principal motives of a Parisian suc- 
cess, and that you deprive yourself of more than half 



264 REMINISCENCES (W THE OrERA, 

the aid of this great motive by making Madame de 
Eossi appear, to her decided disadvantage, in concerts, 
without the aids of scenery, dresses, and animation of 
acting. An eminently fastidious public, like the Parisian, 
will never judge with any other feeling than that of its 
esprit. It has no heart like the public of London." 

But on this point, after a considerable struggle, the 
Count and Countess Rossi gave way. It was not in 
dealingwith such natures as theirs that I could experience 
my greatest difficulties ; the hindrances with which I 
had to contend in carrying out my scheme for the 
" Sontag-Concerts " in Paris arose in other quarters. 

While entertaining the project of bringing forward 
Madame Sontag in the French capital, I had set my 
mind upon the large concert-rooms of the Conservatoire, 
as most appropriate for my purpose. I accordingly 
made application to the Minister of the Interior for 
leave to use these rooms, and a promise that permission 
would be granted was at first given without any seem- 
ing hesitation. Eelying upon this concession, from so 
high an authority, I took measures accordingly, and 
little did I dream, while making my preliminary ar- 
rangements, that difficulty upon difficulty, evasion upon 
evasion, were to assail me at every step, and impede my 
progress. At first I was only met by an expression of 
doubt whether the project could be carried out, inas- 
much as it was very " unusual " to allow any concerts 
to take place in the Conservatoire, especially at a period 
of the year set apart for the celebrated instrumental 
performances of the establishment. When active mea- 
sures had already been taken and arrangements made, 
I was startled by the information that objections had 
been urged by the president of the " Commission des 



THE PARIS CONCERTS PROJECTED. 265 

Theatres" before the Minister of the Interior, and that 
the minister considered it his duty to obtain the sanc- 
tion of this " commission " before dispatching the let- 
ter of authorisation long since promised me. In 
reply to my remonstrances, I was informed that the 
tempest roused by my application was violent, and 
that it would be better to apply for the Italian Opera 
House, then in the possession of Signer Ronconi. 

There is no doubt that had I been previously aware 
of the hostile opposition which my project was destined 
to provoke, I should have made my arrangements differ- 
ently ; but not being a man to yield to groundless 
enmity, or to be daunted by difficulties, I persisted at 
all ventures in my design. Finding that so powerful an 
opponent as the Directeur des Beaux Arts, was taking 
active steps against my project, I felt that I had but one 
resource left, and that lay in an appeal to the President 
of the Republic, the Prince Louis Napoleon. With the 
future Emperor of France, when an exile in England, I 
had been well acquainted. He had been a constant sub- 
scriber to Her Majesty's Theatre, was a frequent guest 
at my house, and had " assisted " at the afternoon 
fetes given by me at my residence, called " The Chan- 
cellor's," at Fulham, where he had entered heart and 
soul into the amusements of the hour. Frequenters of 
these " champStres " entertainments may remember one 
occasion when Prince Louis Napoleon figured in the 
same quadrille with Taglioni, Cerito, and Carlotta Grisi; 
having the Director of Her Majesty's Theatre as his 
vis-a-vis. The Prince and I had frequently dined in 
company at Gore House, the residence of the late 
Countess of Blessington, where all that was distinguished 
in literature and art was constantly assembled ; and it 



266 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

may be worth recording, in connection with the Prince's 
known firm reliance on his destiny that, at one of these 
dinners, when Count D'Orsay was expatiating on the 
evidences that had come before him of the popularity of 
the Prince in France (although, at that time, the law 
forbidding any member of the Bonaparte family to enter 
the country was still in force), the future Emperor sat 
silent with a significant smile upon his face, the meaning 
of which none could fail to interpret. On another occa- 
sion, when I was alluding to the part played by General 
Cavaignac in June 1848, in firing upon the people 
after the hfieute had been quelled, the Prince drily, but 
in an earnest manner, remarked, " That man is clearing 
the way for me." 

The Prince President was not one of those men who 
forget, under present exaltation, friendly relations con- 
tracted during less fortunate days. Having on my 
arrival in Paris inscribed my name at the palace of the 
Elysee, then the residence of the Prince President, I 
was on the morrow honoured with an invitation to dinner; 
and it was natural, in the aforesaid dilemma, that I should 
try the efiect of an appeal to the Prince. My statement 
was listened to with ready attention. " It is in the in- 
terest of art," was the Prince's remark, "that the advent 
of so great a singer as Madame Sontag should be en- 
couraged ;" and orders were immediately issued, through 
his secretary, Monsieur Auguste Chevalier (brother of the 
celebrated j)?/6?2CTs#e, Michel Chevalier), that the " Salle 
du Conservatoire" should be placed at my disposal. 

It might have been supposed that all hindrances were 
now surmounted. But this was far from being the case. 
Open resistance to the President's order was impossible ; 
but a passive opposition was employed in many influential 



OBSTACLES — HOW SURMOUNTED. 267 

quarters to thwart my designs, and thus the definitive 
solution of the afiair was still retarded. It was not only 
from cabals of the Parisian press — which, it may here he 
stated, were active even throughout the whole progress 
of the speculation — and from the intrigues of the "Parti 
Ronconi " (as the opposition on the part of the manage- 
ment of the Italian Opera was called), that I was fated 
to suffer. Expedients, great and small, were invented 
to hinder the production of the Sontag Concerts at the 
sacred " Salle du Conservatoire." The Director of the 
" Beaux Arts " entreated me to prefer the little theatre 
of the Palace of the Tuileries, a proposal which I ac- 
cepted, but ultimately set aside for " reasons of state." 

A more formidable obstacle now appeared in the legal 
or quasi-legal objection, that no official privilege or con- 
cession could be formally made out to me as an alien. 
My qualite detranger, I was officially informed, would 
render such a step illegal. In my fresh dilemma I found 
a friend in Count Eugene de Lonlay, who consented to 
receive the official grant of privilege in his own name. 
In his name, then, after many other technical flaws had 
been devised and surmounted, the privilege to make use 
of the " Salle du Conservatoire" for extraordinary con- 
certs was made out ; and to this formal grant the minis- 
terial signature was duly appended. 

At length, then, I concluded all was smoothed, and 
the Salle was mine. Not so ; the greater expedients of 
the opposition had been employed, and they had failed. 
The minor expedients were put forward, in order to worry 
me, it would seem, into a renunciation of my purpose. 
The " concierge " of the establishment, I was informed, 
was in the habit of receiving his orders only from the 
Director of the Conservatoire, and the Director himself 



268 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

declared that he had received no official directions to give 
up the Salle. Again was this objection obviated. The 
cunning devices were finally reduced to their smallest, 
almost ludicrous form. The very key of the Salle was 
not forthcoming ; "it was in the possession of another 
official, and he had no authority to give it up." ■ 

Wearied by all this chicanery, and by procrastinations 
which threatened to overturn my intended speculation, 
I was obliged, although reluctantly, to make a fresh 
appeal to the President of the Eepublic. How success- 
ful was this new appeal became evident when, on the 
following day, Monsieur Chevalier intimated in person 
to the Director of the " Beaux Arts," that if I were not 
placed in full possession of the Salle du Conservatoire 
within forty-eight hours from that time, the Director's 
own dismissal would be signed by the President. The 
force of " will " possessed by the new ruler of the coun- 
try, whenever that will was once clearly and firmly ex- 
pressed, was already well known in France. Within a 
few hours from the visit of the President's secretary to 
the Director, I was in full possession of the coveted 
Salle. 

After all these intrigues, exercised against a foreigner, 
to thwart his designs, by an artistic clique, the acrimony 
of which may be proved by the fact that I had the 
greatest difficulty in collecting an orchestra — it was a 
gratifying circumstance that the concerts at which Ma- 
dame Sontag appeared were in every way, professionally 
as well as financially, eminently successful. The " ex- 
clusive " Society of Paris, so well known under its desig- 
nation of the " Societe du Faubourg St. Germain," the 
society of the old noblesse of France and its social and 
political adherents which, since the Kevolution of 1848, 



THE FAUBOURG ST. GERMAIN. 269 

had remained mute and spiritless and had given '' no 
sign of life," seemed to have awakened as from a trance. 
It had long since foregone all its wonted festivities. It 
had abstained from even visiting its old arena of fashion 
and fancied exclusiveness, the Italian Opera, thereby 
nearly ruining Signor Eonconi. It had wholly slum- 
bered. But it started up at the sound of Madame 
Sontag's voice as at the blast of a trumpet ; and the 
" beau monde " once more thronged the concert- room to 
overflowing. All that was most brilliant or fashionably 
exclusive in Paris, was again to be seen there, when she 
sang. No matter whether the " Society" of Paris was 
simply excited by curiosity to see the Countess, who had 
descended from her "high estate" into the domain of 
public art — or was really allured by her charm as an 
artist, the fact was so. The " Faubourg St. Germain " 
was resuscitated for the time. Every box and stall at 
these concerts was tenanted by the finest old names of 
France, notwithstanding that the President of the hated 
Eepublic reserved a box for himself, and (although pre- 
vented by state affairs on the first occasion) appeared 
among them to hear the gifted and interesting Countess. 
During the progress of this series of successful concerts, 
a supplementary soiree had been given at Brussels, where 
an equally satisfactory result had been obtained. Al- 
though some of those difficulties without which no enter- 
prise can be carried on, had occurred also in the Belgian 
capital, they were not of that obstructive nature which 
had signalised the Parisian opposition. The same success, 
the same fashionable and artistic appreciation, welcomed 
the brilliant Countess at Brussels ; and she returned to 
sing at the remaining concerts of the "Conservatoire," 
with, if anything, increased j^resifz^e. The result of this 



270 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

speculation would have been sufficient to compensate for 
the short-comings of the previous winter tour, but for the 
loss of time occasioned by the hostile manoeuvres already 
narrated — of time, during which the payments were con- 
tinuous,. the gains suspended. 

Meanwhile, during the prosperous course of Madame 
Sontag in Paris and Brussels, Her Majesty's Theatre 
had opened for the season of 1850, on the evening of 
Tuesday, the 12th March. No distinct or official pros- 
pectus had been issued on this occasion. The customary 
rule had been departed from, amidst the delays and un- 
certainties of the previous year ; and it would seem as 
though I was justified by strict policy in adopting this 
novel course. It affi^rded no ground for the carpings 
and cavillings of my detractors about " promises unful- 
filled," on occasions when I might be unable to meet 
promises legitimately made, and only thwarted by unfor- 
seen circumstances beyond my control. If subscribers 
objected to taking boxes in their uncertainty as to the 
prospects of the season, reliance might still be placed on 
the effect of the attractions eventually produced during 
the course of the season, upon the public at large, which 
was more and more becoming the patron of the Opera ; 
and, as it will be seen, in the history of the season of 
1850, there was never, perhaps, during my whole 
management, a period more rich in illustrious artists of 
every class in the operatic department, or a year in which 
more effective blows were struck. 

Whilst Madame Sontag — whose return to London, as 
well as that of the other principal artists, was a matter ol 
public notoriety — was yet singing in Paris, I had recourse 
to Madame Parodi, one of the objects of interest in the 
previous season. She was to appear as the chief " star" 



OPENING OF THE SEASON 1850. 271 

of the pre-Easter period, and considerable excitement 
was awakened in musical circles by the announcement 
that Pasta's favourite pupil would sustain the character 
of Medea, one of the parts of that great singer that were 
most strongly stamped upon the memory of a former 
generation of opera-goers. So, with the " Medea " of 
Mayer, and Mademoiselle Parodi as the enchantress, the 
theatre once more opened its doors. 

That I had been judicious in producing this opera, as 
a lure to curiosity, was attested by the result. But it 
never could have been expected to occupy a permanent 
position on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre. The 
music of Mayer was of the ante-Rossinian school, and 
was consequently entitled to the respect of the old opera- 
goers, who in their early days had looked upon Eossini 
as a mere tune-maker. But it was not one of the best 
specimens of the early period of the present century, and 
it had owed its reputation to the correctness of its cold 
classicality, and, on the Anglo-Italian stage, to the power- 
ful acting of Pasta. To modern ears it seemed tedious 
and almost commonplace — at all events, deficient in the 
dramatic warmth of later composers. The "mantle" of 
Pasta however, even to the literal acceptation of the 
word, had descended to her pupil ; Parodi's perform- 
ance created a lively interest, stamped, as it was, with 
the traditions of the great vocal Siddons of the Italian 
stage. It was powerful, impressive, and, of its kind, 
brilliant. The " cast " included Beletti and Calzolari — 
both sure, steady, and satisfactory singers of another 
school ; Madame Giuliani ; and, lastly, a new tenor, 
Micheli, who made his first appearance as Giasone, but 
failed utterly to obtain a favourable verdict from the 
critical audience of " Her Majesty's." 



272 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

" Medea " not being destined to retain any position 
on the boards of the Haymarket Opera House, " Nino " 
(" Nabucco ") soon took its place, admirably supported 
by Mademoiselle Parodi, as Abigail, to give occasion 
for the debut of Signer Lorenzo, a young nobleman whose- 
real name was Montemerli and who was highly recom- 
mended by Lord Normanby (at that time our ambassador 
in Paris), by Prince Poniatowski, himself no ordinary mu- 
sician, as well as by other illustrious dilettanti. He appear- 
ed in the part of the maddened king, and was indulgently 
received. Signer Lorenzo had a tolerable voice, and some 
dramatic power; but he was not of that excellence which 
would warrant his being classed with great bass singers, 
such as Lablache, Coletti, or Beletti. 

Far more important was the reappearance of Mr. 
Sims Eeeves on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
All former differences had been amicably arranged with 
the management, and he came again to assert his true 
position as one of the best of European tenors. His 
task was a severe one. He had still to contend with the 
ill-judged fastidiousness and one-sided prejudice of a class 
of opera-goers who will never allow any singer, what- 
ever his merits, to be great in his own country. But 
Eeeves accomplished his task with admirable artistic 
skill, and won his golden spurs in the battle with pre- 
judice in the part of Ernani. His whole perform- 
ance, dramatic as well as vocal, was one of eminent 
merit in the opinion of all unbiassed hearers, Parodi 
was the Elvira of the evening. 

A new ballet, " Les Metamorphoses," on a subject 
5f German "diablerie," had been brought out on the open- 
ing night of the season, with Carlotta Grisi, who 
obtained in it a great amount of favour ; and Mademoi- 



DEBDT OF CATHERINE HAYES. 273 

selle Ferraris, since become so great a favourite on the 
boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, made her debut in an 
occasional divertissement, establishing her reputation " at 
one bound." As a ballerina di forza, Mademoiselle 
Ferraris was remarkable for her grace and rapidity of 
execution. Variety and interest had thus their full 
share in the bill of fare of the opening weeks of the 
season of 1850. 

The theatre reopened for its main season with " Lucia 
di Lammermoor " for the dibut of Miss Catherine Hayes, 
an English vocalist of great and well-deserved celebrity. 
With Sims Eeeves in the part of Edgardo, the supporters 
of "native talent," who formed a small popular party 
of their own in opposition to its detractors at all ven- 
tures, had here an opportunity of greeting two native 
singers at the same time, on the same boards, in Italian 
Opera ; and certainly must have enjoyed a well-won 
triumph for their cause. The debutante was received 
with great favour, and with her feminine grace, her 
tender and refined style, and interesting appearance, 
enlisted the general approbation of the cognoscenti. 

The principal star of the season, Madame . Sontag, 
next appeared, inspired by. her Parisian honours, in 
Donizetti's " Don Pasquale," accompanied by the ever 
welcome ever great Lablache, together with Calzolari 
and Beletti. Each shining nightly in popular favour, 
they composed a charming constellation in this gay little 
opera. Madame Sontag was received on her rentree 
as only Jenny Lind had been received of late years. 
The London audience not only acknowledged its own 
gratification for the past in this reception, but its sense 
also of the triumph in the French capital. She appeared 
as fresh, young, and girlish in her buoyancy as ever. 

T 



274 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEKA. 

The magic effects of the " fontaine de jouvence," that 
enviable marvel, seemed still upon her. In bril- 
liancy of execution, in delicacy and taste, she even 
appeared to have gained somewhat by her fresh expe- 
riences. Norina was allowed to be one of her most 
charming characters. " II Barbiere," and " Don Gio- 
vanni," in which Madame Sontag was an exquisite 
Zerlina, followed ; and the restored cantatrice seemed to 
rise in popular enthusiasm, higher perhaps than in the 
days of her more youthful triumphs. " Le Nozze di 
Figaro " was perhaps less effective than had been the 
revivals of other masterpieces of Eossini and Mozart. 
In spite of the quiet charm of Madame Sontag's 
Susanna, there was ap evident unfitness of Mademoi- 
selle Parodi for the part of the Contessa, as well as of 
Miss Catherine Hayes for that of Cherubino. The 
latter part requires a contralto, not a soprano ; and this 
chef c^oeuvre accordingly flagged, in comparison with 
those operas which had preceded it. Nor was Coletti, who 
had been already welcomed back to his post as an old 
favourite, seen or heard to his customary advantage as 
the Count. In the "Lombardi," and more especially 
in the " Due Foscari," which he sang with Madame 
Giuliani and Mademoiselle Parodi, he received higher 
honours. 

The " Lombardi " of Verdi, never a very popular 
opera in England, was revived for the first appearance 
of a new tenor. The public had been so greatly disap- 
pointed for some time past in the " great " tenors who 
had lately appeared (though lavishly decked with 
Italian laurels), that but little sensq,tion was created by 
the announcement of the debut of " again a new tenor " 
in Signor Baucarde. On the contrary, an expectation 



BADOABD^. 275 

of fresh disappointment hung over the minds of all. 
Under these circumstances, Baucarde may be said 
to have taken the town by surprise. According to 
a current story, young Baucarde had been originally 
employed in the palace kitchen of the Grand Duke of 
Tuscany ; and, like the celebrated composer Lully, 
he jSrst attracted the attention of his superiors by his 
talents for cookery. His manifest vocal advantages caused 
him to be placed in a position to acquire a sound musical 
education, and thus to become one of the most agreeable 
tenors of his time. 

Nothing was expected, yet great results were 
achieved. With a charmingly sweet, bnt still robust 
voice of wonderful extension ; with a style wherein the 
use of the falsetto was at once sparingly and judiciously 
employed, this young artist won easily upon a public 
accustomed to give a preference to natural gifts over 
the display of skill. Not that Baucarde was deficient in 
skill ; on the contrary, his " school " was excellent. As 
an actor he rose scarcely above mediocrity, but any 
deficiency in this respect was overlooked in the splen- 
dour of his " organ." 

In the " Due Foscari," and in a lesser degree, perhaps, 
in the " Puritani " (in which Madame Sontag appeared 
for the first time), Signor Baucarde continued to win 
upon the audience. In " Lucrezia Borgia " he had to 
contend with illustrious recollections; so that his success 
in " Gennaro," in which his deficiencies as an actor 
were more easily discernible than in other parts, was 
somewhat dimmed by the memories of supeior excellence. 
Lablache's opinion of Baucarde was thus expressed in a 
letter : — " Baucarde e un giovine di buon aspetto, e 
se studiera, diverra un tenore di prima sfera. Place 

t2 



276 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

generalmente, benchfe abbia bisogna di perfezzionare la 
sua mimica." 

In " Lucrezia Borgia," Madame Frezzolini made hei* 
reappearance before the subscribers. Her first debut 
had not produced any great effect. She now appeared 
with revived powers and the added eclat of her great 
reputation in Italy, and that obtained, more lately, in 
Russia. 

That her success was great is undoubted, in this 
opera as well as in the " Elisir d'Amore ;" but although 
received with decided favour, this excellent artiste never 
acquired that position in the eyes of a London 
audience which she certainly merited ; all the more 
disappointing as the pretensions of the lady were 
enormous, and the diplomacy needed to secure her 
unusually difficult. Moreover, one of the great events 
of the season of 1850 was at hand, absorbing all the 
interest of curiosity and expectation. 

The new opera of the " Tempesta," based upon " The 
Tempest " of Shakspeare, with a libretto arranged and 
written by Monsieur Scribe, and music by Halfevy, was 
about to be performed. A new opera, " never given 
upon any stage " and first to be sung at Her Majesty's 
Theatre, was in itself a fact sufficiently important to 
rouse curiosity and excitement in all musical circles. 
But coming heralded by high-sounding names curiosity 
rose many degrees higher. The "first night" pre- 
occupied the attention of opera-goers to the detriment of 
all other attractions, and expectation under those circum- 
stances amounted to feverish impatience. 

The previous history of this libretto, originally offered 
to the celebrated Mendelssohn, first kept in abeyance on 
account of the difference of opinion between the com- 



PREPARATION OF " LA TEMPESTA." 277 

poser and librettist with regard to certain " situations," 
and finally entirely laid aside upon the death of the 
illustrious composer, has already been given. Of all 
modern musicians, no one had been so well fitted for 
the task of clothing the ideas of Shakspeare with appro- 
priate music as the immortal composer of " A Mid- 
summer Night's Dream." But the original spirit was 
hushed, and, under the circumstances, no other com- 
poser could probably have been found to undertake 
the task of treading upon the hallowed ground of 
Shakspeare's poem with more reverence than Monsieur 
Halevy. In all he undertook he was earnest and 
zealous. If not so thoroughly imbued with that spirit of 
poetry which pervaded the works of the great Men- 
delssohn, he had, at all events, a deep feeling of 
" devotion " (if so it may be called), which gave him 
strength and power. Although somewhat hurried by 
the necessary demands of the management. Monsieur 
Halevy had accomplished the task set before him with a 
truthful and earnest spirit. That the subject of Shak- 
speare's " Tempest " was eminently fitted for music, few 
will be found to contest; moreover it seems probable that 
this play was the first which, in the Elizabethan age, 
assumed in some degree the form of an opera, richly 
interspersed as it was with pieces to be sung. The play 
has been revived at difierent epochs since the days of 
Shakspeare, and in difierent shapes, but almost in- 
variably, till within a late period, in an operatic form, 
with music by difierent composers. That of Purcell and 
Arne has come down " fresh as ever " to our days. 
The operatic spirit of the play has, in very late yeai's, 
also inspired one' of the best rising composers of the 
present time, Mr. Sullivan, with some charming melo- 



278 KEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

dies. Nevertheless this great work of Shakspeare, 
partaking in a considerable degree rather of the nature 
of a dramatic poem than of an actual opera, lacked (be 
it said -with all reverence) the stage " situations " ren- 
dered necessary to lyrical works by modern require- 
ments. These " situations," Monsieur Scribe, fertik in 
invention and skilled in dramatic expedients, ha,d 
laboured to supply. His task was not grateful, however 
executed ; it was sure to be assailed by the " Purist " 
lovers of Shakspeare, as being an audacious inroad upon 
the conceptions of the mighty poet. 

It has been seen that this " audacity " had met no 
congenial response from Mendelssohn. That Monsieur 
Scribe, by placing in the foreground the insane love of 
Caliban for Miranda ; by inventing the power of the 
magic flowers, placed in the hands of Caliban by his 
imprisoned mother Sycorax, to work her spells upon her 
enemies ; by introducing the carrying off of Miranda by 
the monster, and by other devices, had furnished certain 
dramatic situations to meet what he considered the 
demands of modern opera, and afford the composer 
striking points for music, is indubitable. But it is equally 
indubitable that he thus laid himself open to severe 
criticism, especially in the scene where Miranda, deluded 
by the warning voice of Sycorax, is about to attempt the 
life of the sleeping Ferdinand, as her father's worst and 
most dangerous enemy. Apart from the reverent feel- 
ing for the master-mind of Shakspeare (if that reve- 
rence could be waived when the mighty name entered so 
powerfully into the prestige of the whole production). 
Monsieur Scribe had concocted a striking and fascinating 
libretto of supernatural /erne. 

The "cast" announced was of grand promise. Sontag 



PRODUCTION OF " TEMPESTA." 279 

figured as Miranda, Lablache as Caliban, Coletti as 
Frospero, Baucarde as Ferdinand, Trincuh and Stephana 
fell to the lot of Ferraris and Mademoiselle Parodi. 
The conspiring Princes were represented by Lorenzo and 
Federico Lablache. Sycorax and The Spirit of the Air 
(although very minor parts), were to be sung by Ida 
Bertrand, the contralto of the season, and Madame 
Giuliani ; whilst the '' dainty spirit Ariel " was to be 
embodied by Carlotta Grisi. It would be difficult to 
conceive a "cast" of greater power or of greater promise, 
to imagine how the excitement on the subject of the new 
opera could be otherwise than intense in musical circles. 
To increase the importance of the event, both Monsieur 
Halevy and Monsieur Scribe arrived in London in order 
to superintend the last rehearsels of their work, and 
were received on all occasions with the homage due to 
their names.* 

On Saturday the 8th July, the long-expected "Tem- 
pest " was produced before an over-flowing audience. 
The success of the work on the first night was " tre- 
mendous." Never, perhaps, had any new opera been 
received with such frenzied acclamation. The opera, 
there is no doubt, abounded in striking and captivating 

*A11 London seemed of one mind to offer every tribute of respect 
to the illustrious Frenchmen. The great opened their houses to 
them. Clubs did them honour. Literary societies offered them 
festive entertainments. Every facility was afforded them by the 
" Powers that be," This general enthusiasm was the best evidence 
of a national desire to express a generous entente cordiale on our 
side of the water. I celebrated the arrival of these coadjutors 
by a grand dinner, at which the Duke of Leinster, Baron 
Brunow the Russian Ambassador, Monsieur Van der Weyer the 
Belgian minister, and other personages of rank and note were pre- 
sent. 



280 KEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

morceaux, and had been composed with earnestness and 
power. Of melody, there was a rich store, although 
the evQr popular air, by Dr. Arne, " Where the bee 
sucks," judiciously employed by the composer for the 
pantomimic music of his Ariel^ and as the finale of the 
opera, stood out amidst all its modern companions with 
a delicious freshness. 

After the performance, Monsieur Halfevy, while on 
the stage, was overwhelmed with congratulations. All 
the foreign artists were warm in their expressions of de- 
light. One after the other they approached him to 
say, " How beautiful ! How charming ! How exquisite 
is this motivo /" Each hummed a melody. The melody 
was invariably the same. It was that of Arne. Poor 
Monsieur Halevy must have winced under it, even in the 
midst of his glory. Moreover, there was a drawback in 
the decrescendo nature of the composition. Each of the 
three main acts of the opera (the tempest at sea having 
formed a prologue) was less effective (even though good 
in itself) than the preceding one. Nevertheless, the 
opera was received with a species of wild enthusiasm. 
Artists, composer, author, conductor, and finally the 
manager, were one and all called and recalled to receive 
the overwhelming plaudits of the crowded house. 

The singing of all employed on the occasion was 
"first-rate." Madame Sontag won herself fresh 
laurels, and made the part of Miranda one of the 
very best. But, in the midst of all that was excellent, 
Lablache stood out in popular estimation as the striking 
impersonation of the character of Caliban. It was the 
last, as it was the best " creation " of this rare artist. 
The music as well as the acting taxed to the utmost 
the powers of one already on the wane. But he rose 



LABLACHE's " CALIBAN." 281 

superior to every difficulty. His Caliban was not only 
adjudged to be the finest delineation of the character 
known, even amidst the many great actors who had 
figured in this extraordinary part upon the English 
stage, but was hailed as one of the " finest creations " 
ever seen! All was novel — all was artistic in this won- 
derful personation. His " dull earthiness " and " brute 
ferocity," his expression of animal love for Miranda, his 
savage exultation under the influence of wine, and his 
grovelling, but still revengeful despair, combined to 
form a masterpiece, and raised Lablache — if anything 
could raise him — to a loftier pinnacle of fame than 
before. Scarcely less strildng was the Ariel of Carlotta 
Grisi, who exhibited more "mind" as well as more 
poetry of expression in this, than in any previous cho- 
reographic effort. Coletti, Baucarde, and Mademoiselle 
Parodi (in the spirited little part of the sailor Stephana, 
as it stood in operatic form), all came in for the 
crumbs which fell from the rich harvest of acclamation so 
lavishly bestowed upon the above-mentioned artists. It 
is due to the management, at the same time, to say, that 
all the scenic illustrations of the " faery " opera were 
fraught with a magnificence and a poetic feeling previously 
unknown. The contrivance of the vessel wrecking in the 
storm of the prologue, the landscapes of the "Enchanted 
Island," and the gorgeous display of spirit power in the 
concluding tableau, surpassed all yet exhibited on tlie 
boards of Her Majesty's Theatre. 

The performance of Lablache in Caliban, became, as 
might have been expected, the "town talk," and con- 
tributed very materially to the great success of the 
" Tempesta," which ran on its triumphant course 
every night for some weeks to crowded houses, and with 



282 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

undiminished excitement. During this brilliant period, 
I gave, at the " Chancellors," one of those " delightful 
files," which, as has been said, were always among the 
leading features of a London season. On this occasion 
the tribute was principally paid to the " heroes of the 
day," Monsieur Halevy and Monsieur Scribe. These 
gentlemen were invited to receive a national welcome, as 
it were, from persons bearing rank either in the social 
hierarchy or in the domain of art and literature ; of which 
classes a goodly array was assembled on the 19th of 
June, 1850, in my villa and grounds, to do honour to 
the foreign " celebrities." 

About this time the Nepaulese Prince was one of the 
frequenters of Her Majesty's Theatre. I recollect he 
told me, on the occasion of his visit, that he did not 
know how " to sit still," so much was he struck with the 
brilliancy on both sides. Although educated not to 
express surprise, he could not conceal his feelings. 



It was necessary, however, in spite of the great suc- 
cess of the " Tempesta," to provide employment for the 
other artists of the establishment, and to give some 
repose to those whose powers had been so long and so 
arduously taxed. The first change was made by the 
revival of the " Montecchi e Capuletti " of Bellini, for 
Madame Frezzolini as Giulietta, and Mademoiselle Parodi 
as Borneo. So many years had passed since Bellini's 
version of " Romeo and Juliet " had appeared on the 
boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, that it was received 
with a certain amount of curiosity, not to say as a 
novelty. Pleasing as are Bellini's, melodies throughout 



REAPPEARANCE OF PASTA, 283 

this opera, its disjointed and unsatisfactory libretto had 
always caused it to fail of securing a hearty welcome in 
a theatre where Shakspeare was involuntarily more or 
less in men's thoughts. But the combined attraction 
of Frezzolini and Parodi, both of whom were admirably 
" suited " in this opera, carried it through with very 
considerable eclat. The same occasion was used for the 
reappearance of Gardoni (the fourth successful primo 
tenor e in my abundant list for the season), in the some- 
what unsatisfactory part of Tebaldo ; when this popular 
favourite was welcomed back with more than usual cor- 
diality. Some of the enthusiasm demonstrated upon 
this occasion was due to a false report which had 
been spread about and had appeared in the public 
prints, respecting the death of this a(icomplished young 
tenor at St. Petersburg, where he had a winter engage- 
ment. The intelligence had been frequently given as 
authentic, although Gardoni had never had a moment's 
illness. 

A surprise now awaited the frequenters of Her 
Majesty's Theatre — a surprise, suggesting to some per- 
sons feelings of apprehension rather than of pleasurable 
emotion — to others a subject fraught with curiosity. 
Madame Pasta was in London — the great and far-famed 
Pasta — the Pasta who had been the glory and pride of an 
earlier generation of opera-goers. She was here on a visit 
to her young friend and pupil, Mademoiselle Parodi — the 
child of her affection and of future hopes. Would the illus- 
trious prima donna (it was urged) once more appear upon 
those boards where in earlier days she had won so many 
triumphs ? Doubtless the great artist hesitated. It is 
to be hoped she was unwilling to mar the fair structure 



284 RKMINISCENCES OF THE OPEEA. 

of fame she had built up for herself, by publicly exhibit- 
ing the waste and ruin which time had unquestionably 
wrought. But whatever the motive which induced her 
to give way to solicitations, she yielded to the 
desire of appearing once more upon the scene of her 
past and still unforgotten glories. A preliminary con- 
cert was given in the music-room of the establishment, 
before a select rather than numerous audience. Old 
admirers were there, who still recollected Madame Pasta 
when she was the greatest ornament of the lyric stage ; 
younger dilettanti of the day assembled to catch the last 
rays of a genius which had once filled all Europe with 
its splendour. The former sought the memory of days 
gone by ; the latter came to pay deference to the verdict 
of a previous generation. All listened with respect, 
liberally applauded the remains of past greatness, and 
kindly " dreamed the rest." Madame was hailed with 
the tribute due to her name and fame. She was done 
homage to as a queen by the circle around her : but 
the artist was, confessedly, a wreck. The fine qualities 
were still there, like the perfume of the spirit in the 
broken vase ; the noble phrasing, the grandeur of ex- 
pression, the classic severity of taste in the choice and 
use of ornament. But the voice, always thick and 
husky even in its prime, had lost all its volume and all 
command over correct intonation. As a relic of a 
proud monument of former days, she was contemplated 
with veneration ; but no memory of the past could gild 
the ruin so as to veil its desolation. 

A still severer trial attended the illustrious prima 
donna on the boards of the theatre. On Thursday the 
11th of July she appeared (now " for the last time on 
any stage ") in a selection of " scenes " from " Anna 



PASTA AS " ANNA BOLENA," 285 

Bolena." The part of the afflicted queen had been one 
of the greatest among her characters. Curiosity 
had been stimulated to a very powerful degree, and 
the house was crowded in every part. Madame Pasta 
appeared, to be hailed with prolonged acclamations. 
There she stood once more, on the scene of her past 
glories, " every inch a Queen." The spectacle was 
deeply interesting ; yet it was melancholy, not to say 
painful, to all who could feel with true artistic sympathy. 
With the noble presence and the lofty air of the Pasta of 
old days, she moved like a mighty shadow of the past 
before the eyes of the spectators ; but it was the "shadow 
of a shade." The qualities already mentioned — the 
faultless style, the finished phrasing, the grand declama- 
tion, were all greeted with something more than respect, 
whilst the imaginative among the audience may have 
figured to themselves, like clever geologists, out of 
the shattered remains of the great vocal Mammoth, a 
perfect creature of former times. But the general sen- 
timent was one of disappointment and regret. " Is this 
all that remains of so wonderful a past ? " was the re- 
gretful exclamation of the young. " It had been better 
that our hopeful recollection had never been disturbed 
and dimmed by so sad a ghost," thought the old. The 
" longing, lingering look behind " had literally been 
taken by the great prima donna. That she damaged 
her great fame by taking it, cannot be said. Her 
" last appearance " was soon forgotten in the turmoil of 
operatic events ; whilst her name still gleams with tra- 
ditional lustre in the annals of lyric fame. 

"Well do I recollect a visit I myself paid to the great 
Pasta at her residence on the lake of Como, where her 
pupil Parodi was also living. The primitive simplicity of 



286 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

life adopted by one who had formerly commanded the 
applause of Europe, was indeed surprising. On one 
occasion, when rowing in a boat upon the lake, Parodi 
sang " Addio Teresa," in which I at once recognised the 
origin of " Trema Bizantio " in Belisario. 



My next venture in the way of novelty was certainly 
not of so " legitimate " a nature, although a justifica- 
tion of the policy of producing any kind of excellence 
to stimulate curiosity is easily furnished. The ap- 
pearance of a negress singer had long been announced. 
In Paris, under the name of the " Black Malibran," 
this " lady of colour " had certainly excited a consider^ 
able sensation. M. Theophile Gautier, who wrote to 
me respecting this interesting personage, thought she 
would suit England : " Elle a surtout ce qui plait en 
Angleterre: I'excentricite, la nouveautfe, et I'originalitfe." 
But Gautier here only expresses the ordinary French 
point de vue. 

Her biography, excellently written, and introduced in 
a treatise upon the songs of the Isle of Cuba and negro 
melodies in general, had been published and disseminated. 
Donna Maria Martinez, the " Black Malibran," it was 
generally made known, was the child of freed negroes, 
had been carefully brought up and well instructed in a 
Spanish house, and early grounded in musical science. 
Wedded to a Spanish sea captain (not a " gentleman of 
colour " it may be presumed), she had suffered reverses 
of fortune, and had made her musical attainments avail- 
able by public singing. The " Black Malibran " figured 
in a new divertissement, entitled " Les Delices du 
Strait," as " a wandering minstrel," singing to the Sul- 



THE "BLACK MALIBRAN." 287 

tana. Her Cuban, and more exclusively Spanish melo- 
dies, were full of original charm. She accompanied 
herself upon the guitar, of the powers of which she was 
evidently a mistress. Her execution was excellent ; 
her spirit and animation were undeniable ; her voice was 
sweet, pure, and true, although too weak for the vast 
arena of her Majesty's Theatre. She was vehemently 
applauded and encouraged. But the whole perform- 
ance was " small," almost to meagreness ; and although 
it might well be regarded as a piquant musical curiosity, 
it failed in any real power of attraction. This black 
phantom flitted briefly over the stage, to disappear for 
ever, as a far more illustrious "shade" had recently done 
before her. 

It must not be supposed that the great piima donna 
of the season had been merged below the surface in 
this inundation of unexpected novelty. The " Tempesta" 
was still to be found " upon the bills," and on the night 
of the 18th of July, Madame Kossi Sontag appeared 
for the first time in the "Figlia del Keggimento." 
Perhaps iluring her whole career at Her Majesty's 
Theatre, since her return to the stage, Madame Sontag 
had never undertaken a more hazardous part. The 
"Figlia" was so identified in the public mind with 
Jenny Lind, that it was impossible for Madame Sontag 
to escape comparisons on the part of a public which 
always will insist, against all the rules of true judgment, 
in making them. The Anglo-Italian stage had known no 
" Figlia " but its own cherished and petted daughter of 
adoption. The town still swarmed with coloured en- 
gravings and statuettes of its beloved " Child of the 
Kegiment." But from this ordeal Madame Sontag came 
forthwith credit. Her exquisite grace and the perfection 



288 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of her singing nobody questioned. But it was as the 
consummate actress, full of imaginative detail, and in- 
ventive bye-play, that she shone forth conspicuously. 
The public found that instead of one " daughter," it now 
had two, and in spite of strong impressions of " first 
love," could hardly decide which of the two it now loved 
the best. Again, in a portion of the " Semiramide," 
given for the lady's benefit night, Madame Sontag, 
although not generally looked upon as an exponent of 
the " opera seria," and subjected as before to trying com- 
parisons, once more obtained the sufirages of her audi- 
ence. In all she shone, although surrounded by other 
luminaries, as the " star " of Her Majesty's Theatre. 

Another event of the season of 1850 — a season 
already so prolific in unexpected appearances — was the 
debut of Madame Fiorentini as Norma. This lady, a 
Spaniard by birth, and the wife of an English ofiicer, 
had already obtained reputation in Berlin. She ap- 
peared with singular advantages — a fine, full, mellow 
voice, and remarkable personal beauty. With these 
decidedly " sensuous " aids, she carried all before her 
on a first night, in spite of an obvious deficiency in 
flexibility when attempting florid execution, and the 
absence of self-command as an actress. In the opinion 
of those in whom her captivating and obvious natural 
gifts did not outweigh the judgment, she had yet much 
to learn. Again she appeared as Donna Anna, in 
" Don Giovanni." Perhaps in the music of Mozart, 
and by the side of the exquisite German " school " dis-. 
played by Madame Sontag, she was heard (there was no 
question about the " seen ") to still less advantage. 
Still the public was not to be talked out of its " first 
night " enthusiasm, and the season of 1850 may be said 



WORKS POSTPONED. 289 

to have closed, leaving to Madame Fiorentini a full 
measure of triumph. In public estimation she had 
been eminently successful : in the judgment of the 
" connoisseur," it was at least " promising," if nothing 
more. 

The success of the various new works produced during 
the season, and more especially the long " run " of the 
" Tempesta," had prevented the production of other 
novelties contemplated. The " Prigione d'Edimborgo " 
of Ricci was once more laid aside. The "Domino Noir " 
of Auber, for Madame Sontag, was placed on the shelf 
— indeed, it was not wanted ; and the " Enfant 
Prodigue," also of Auber, was necessarily postponed to 
the following season. The strongest example of the pro- 
verbial ''' slip betwixt cup and lip " (which, probably, 
has greater force in operatic and dramatic arrangements 
than in all other mundane matters), was afforded in the 
non-production of Lortzing's highly popular German 
opera of " Czar und Zimmermann," the principal cha- 
racter of which had been intended for Lablache. A long 
and serious correspondence between the management and 
Herr Lortzing, had led to the almost immediate " mount- 
ing " of this amusing opera huffa. But Lablache was 
already embarked in the new and arduous character of 
Caliban, a part requiring all the energies of his mind in 
previous study — all the energies of his physical strength 
in subsequent execution. Thus the " Burgomaestro di 
Saardam," of Lortznig, had to share the fate of its many 
melodious companions. 



Although Jenny Lind had passed away for ever from 
the stage of Her Majesty's Theatre, yet her name was 
still so strongly connected with the pleasantest memories 

u 



290 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of its fortunes, that, in a history of its management, a 
mention of her voyage to America must needs find a 
place in it. " Farmed " by the well-known speculator 
Barnum, and accompanied by Mr. Benedict and Signor 
Beletti, she sailed (in the autumn of 1850) for the 
United States, to win enthusiastic plaudits and ample 
remuneration, in each of which tributes to her great 
talents our trans- Atlantic brethren seemed resolved to 
equal, if not to out-do, the " Britishers." 

During this year, a series of " Grand National Con- 
certs " was given within the time-honoured walls of Her 
Majesty's Theatre. This enterprise, conducted by an 
association of noblemen and gentlemen already connected 
with the " artist world," and carried on with vigour, 
with Mr. Balfe as conductor, first-rate artists as execu- 
tants, and an admirable chorus, seemed destined to 
achieve great things. Yet never was failure more signal. 
Whence the cause of this disastrous result never 
was clearly ascertained. May it not have simply been 
a case of " the broth spoiled" by "too many cooks" ? 

In the midst of all the anxieties and enormous press 
of business consequent upon the administration of so vast 
an establishment, my mind had been greatly occupied 
by the measures necessary for the realisation of the very 
important project to which a brief reference has already 
been made. I was anxious to combine in one grasp the 
direction of the Italian Opera in Paris with that of Her 
Majesty's Theatre in London. Early in the year 1849, 
my attention had been fixed upon this scheme ; and my 
greatest ambition now was to unite the two theatres 
under my own management. In latter seasons, the 
" Italiens " (to adopt the familiar Parisian phrase) had 
been in the hands of Eonconi. But the enterprise 



THE " ITALIENS " AT PARIS. 291 

flagged, and was evidently about to fail utterly under 
his management. Indeed, the pretensions of Madame 
Eonconi, an inferior and unpopular artist, which had 
been already disastrously put forward in London, ren- 
dered any able conduct of the establishment simply im- 
possible in the hands of a compliant husband. The 
reins, which were evidently dropping from Ronconi's in- 
competent hands, I hoped to seize, and then to conduct 
the chariot to a more creditable goal. My fame as an 
administrator, I may take leave to say, was spread far and 
wide. Among other theatres, the Italian Opera at Lisbon 
had been offered to me, through the intermediation of the 
English Resident Minister, and on highly advantageous 
terms. But my hopes, like my ambition, were fixed 
upon the nobler prize. Through the assistance of an 
eminent diplomatic friend, ever kind and effective, I had 
already contrived to "feel my ground " among many 
most influential personages in the French capital. 

During the season of 1850, 1 crept nearer and nearer 
to the object of my hopes. As was to be expected, in- 
trigues, hostilities, mischances of every kind were opposed 
to my endeavour. It has been seen how great were the 
obstacles thrown in the way of a foreigner in a matter of 
such minor consideration as the grant of the " Salle du. 
Conservatoire" for a simple series of concerts; and it may 
be imagined how much more dexterously obstacles 
would be raised against my designs when this same 
" foreigner " was soliciting the concession of one of the 
greatest theatrical establishments in Paris. But pend» 
ing all these intrigues the President of the fiepublio 
again stood my friend. Private messages were des- 
patched — through the British Embassy in Paris — inform- 
ing me of the best steps to be taken on the occasion j 

u 2 



292 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPEKA. 

and to the kind and active assistance of the Prince I 
was finally indebted for the privilege oi the Italian Opera 
in Paris. Whether the victory thus gained was to prove 
an important advantage, or a delusive gift of fortune, 
was yet to be decided by the subsequent course of 
events. 

At last the formal "concession" of the Parisian 
Italian Opera was in my hands. Like all similar con- 
cessions, under the regulations then existing in France, 
it was hampered with . conditions of a most onerous 
nature. Deposits of large sums were at once required 
as a cautionnement, and as a guarantee of the dues to 
be paid to Government. A formal list of the pieces to 
be represented, and of the artists to be engaged during 
the season, was demanded. Even these preliminary 
arrangements were to be submitted to the Minister of 
the Interior. A formidable catalogue of official personages 
having a right to boxes on every night, and free 
entrances upon every occasion — an official "free list" 
(as the phrase would have run in English) of such pre- 
tensions that it seemed to stretch " to the crack of 
doom," — was rendered imperative upon the new director 
of the establishment. Again a strict official surveillance 
was to be exercised in almost every department. The 
management of a theatre is still less "a bed of roses " 
in Paris than elsewhere. Yet more exorbitant than the 
pretensions of the officials were those of persons who 
could in any way, or on any " ^eg " of privilege, hang 
up a claim to gratuitous entrees. Scarcely was it bruited 
abroad that my effiarts had been crowned with success, 
and that I might now be accosted as " Monsieur le 
Directeur du Theatre de I' Opera Italien a Paris" than 
I was stifled beneath, a very avalanche of applicatipns 



VICTOR HUGO AND RACHEL. 293 

for favours to the writers or their protegh. Artists of 
every kind were recommended, not only by persons of 
the highest influence, but by mere ''nobodies," Places 
were demanded in the administration of the service in- 
terieur. Advice was hurled at my unfortunate head, 
including even remonstrances against what might possi- 
bly be in contemplation ! 

Another impediment, peculiar to the position of the 
Italian Opera at Paris, met me on the very threshold 
of my enterprise. The authors in France have the 
legal right to demand their share of the profits of every 
representation of every opera derived from their works, 
and even (at will) to prevent any representation what- 
soever of such pieces. Negotiations consequently had 
to be opened, respectively, for permission to perform 
several most important operas ; for I had in my con- 
templated repertoire, "La Fille du Eegiment," "Ernani,'' 
" Lucrezia Borgia," " Eigoletto," " Le Eoi S'amuse," 
and many other lyrical works, all derived from French 
sources. 

With Messrs. Bayard and St. Georges, the authors of 
the first-named piece, I had little difficulty ; but with 
Monsieur Victor Hugo the case was different. He re- 
fused to give his assent altogether to the performance 
of "Lucrezia Borgia," which I was desirous of making an 
especial feature. The music had been given, it is true, 
with another story and other words ; but in this shape 
it had always failed of producing any effect in Paris. 
, My first diplomatic negotiation with the great poet was 
a personal one, but Monsieur Victor Hugo was positive 
in his refusal, and, when hard pressed, gave as a reason 
that a performance of his piece in Italian would be 
.detrimental to the appearance of Mademoiselle Kachel 



294 EEMINTSCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

in the principal part at the Thfe^tre Fran9ais. My next 
visit was to the great actress, with whom I had always 
been on the most friendly terms, when Mademoiselle 
Eachel most positively assured me, that it was never her 
intention to play the part of Lucrezia. At my sugges- 
tion she consented to see Monsieur Victor Hugo on the 
subject; rang the bell, ordered her carriage at once, and 
started forthwith to seek an interview with the dramatist. 
In about an hour's time she returned, bringing the 
author's written consent in her hand. In the mean- 
while, however, an application by letter had been made 
by Madame de Girardin (Delphine Gay, the authoress), 
at the instance of Prince Poniatowski, to the celebrated 
tragedienne, to perform this very service. Mademoiselle 
Eachel immediately sent word that the "game was 
already won." To this letter the authoress responded 
by an effusion of thanks, expressive of admiration at 
the promptitude and success of the ambassadress, end- 
ing with the declaration that Mademoiselle Rachel must 
be even a greater " enchantress " than she already knew 
her to be. 

The consent given by the author was framed with 
singular precision. Six representations of " Lucrezia 
Borgia " alone were to be granted ; and these were ex- 
pressly to take place in the months of October, Novem- 
ber, and December. As a compensation, the author was 
to receive for each representation of the adaptation of 
his work, "ten per cent upon the gross receipts of 
each evening!" A postscript permitted three representa- 
tions of "Ernani" on the same terms. 

As some compensation for the unusual difficulties 
attending the management of the Italian Opera in Paris, 
I could not but feel flattered by the kindness, hos- 



ENTREE OF PARISIAN SOCIETT. 295 

pitality, and distinction with which I was received by 
some of the most influential personages in Paris. A 
welcome guest at the " Elysees," the residence of the 
Prince President, and hospitably received by Lord and 
Lady Normanby, who opened to me the doors of the Eng- 
lish Embassy, I found the Parisian society of the day all 
ready to hold out a cordial hand. Invitations to Minis- 
terial soirees awaited me. The future Imperialists 
"followed suit" in attentions. M. De Persigny, ever im- 
pulsive in his measures, and M. De Morny, whose interest 
in dramatic affairs was always intense, did all they could 
to forward my views. The Kothschilds, Foulds, Ba- 
roches, opened their houses. Literary men were forward 
in their expressions of esteem. By my new venture, it 
will be seen that I was launched upon the stream of Pa- 
risian life under most pleasant and (as I then hoped) 
happy auspices. 



296 



CHAPTER XX. 

The Great Exhibition in Hyde Park — Preparations for the Entertain- 
ment of " All Nations" by the Opera Management — Opening of 
the Theatre with Caroline Duprez — Her Eeeeption — Production of 
" Gustavus III."— The " Muta di Portiei," with Mdlle. Monti— 
Her Talent as a Mime — Bentrde of Madame Sontag— " Gala" Ee- 
presentation, to celebrate the Opening of the Exhibition — " Le Tre 
Nozze" of Alary " mounted" — Its Success — Don Giovanni — Sims 
Eeeves — Eeturn of Sophie Cfuvelli — "Eidelio" brought out for 
the first Time at Her Majesty's Theatre — Obliging Conduct of the 
leading Singers in assisting to give Effect to the " Chorus of Pri- 
soners" — The Opera very successful — The " Enfant Prodigue" of 
Auber, strongly cast — Madame Ugalde — Production of " Florinda" 
by M. Thalberg— Its Effect diminished by the Dullness of the " Li- 
bretto"— State Visit of the Queen to "The Old House"— Bar- 
bieri-Nini— Balfe's Opera— F^te at My Villa. 

The year 1851, which now dawned, was the first 
" Great Exhibition" year in London. All the world 
had been invited to a great industrial and social congress 
in England. The busy hum of preparation in honour 
of the invitation was heard in all countries. When the 
world was to send guests, but one thought occupied 
men's minds in England — viz., how best to do them 
honour. In this thought I was not behind the nation. 
When it seemed likely that the influx of sight-seeing 
visitors to the English metropolis, including British and 
Irish as well as foreign guests, would be enormous, be- 
yond any known precedent in London's history, it would 



PREPARATIONS FOR 1851. 297 

have been easy for the director of Her Majesty's Theatre 
to rely upon his "stock" company, and his ample re- 
pertoire of " stock operas," as sufficiently attractive for 
the gathering multitudes, to many of whom thg per- 
formances would have appeared fresh and new; more 
especially would the "common language" of music 
have led foreigners, in quest of recreation, to the lyrical 
theatres. But far from " resting on my oars," in the 
assurance that operatic calculation must prove success- 
ful at all ventures, I felt animated by more than usual 
ambition to secure a pre-eminence for the establishment 
over which I presided, and which had so long been re- 
nowned for both lyrical and choreographic glories. " My 
soul was stirred within me ;" and if the arrangements 
made for the season of 1851 could not by any human 
exertions greatly excel those of some past years, they 
certainly equalled in brilliancy and variety any which 
had been presented to London during the whole career 
of my management. " I set my house in order," for the 
reception not of London alone, but of " all the world." 
Nor would it be using hyperbole to say that, as far as 
operatic events were concerned, the " eyes of Europe 
were upon me."* 

Keturniug to ancient custom, I once more published 
a formal, official prospectus of the engagements and 
coming events of the season. General approval greeted 
this return to the old observance, which had for once 
been suspended in 1850. 

Tk% 'programme was rich in great names. In addi- 

* In addition to the proposal mentioned in the last chapter, to accept 
•the management of the great operatic theatre at Lisbon, I had been 
entreated, early in the year 1851, by the governmental and municipal 
authorities of, Milan, to become the director of the great theatre of La 
JScala, in that city. 



298 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

tion to Madame Sontag, now the reigning queen of the 
operatic stage, Mademoiselle Alboni, Mademoiselle 
Parodi,- Madame Fiorentini, Madame Giuliani, and other 
cantatrici of note, were now promised Mademoiselle 
Caroline Duprez, the daughter of the celebrated tenor, 
who had latterly achieved great success in Paris, and 
Madame Barbieri-Nini. In addition, likewise, to the 
names already established in popular favour, of Gardoni, 
Sims Reeves, Calzolari, and Lablache, those of Scotti, a 
new tenor, and Ferranti, were announced. Beletti, one 
of the most admired bass singers of the time, had sailed 
for New York with Jenny Lind, his firm friend and 
supporter. The ballet comprised the elite of the wonted 
favourites in Carlotta Grisi, Rosati, Ferraris, Marie 
Taglioni, and Petit-Stephan, under the auspices of the 
able ballet-master, Monsieur Paul Taglioni. 

It was altogether under pleasant auguries that Her 
Majesty's Theatre opened on Saturday, 22nd March. 
" Lucia di Lammermoor" was given, with Mademoiselle 
Caroline Duprez as the Lucia of the night. The 
widely-spread and deserved celebrity of her father, 
Monsieur Duprez, the great tenor of the Academic ex- 
Royale of Paris, had attached an unwonted interest to 
the debut of his daughter. He was known to be not 
only a great singer, but a profound and accomplished 
musician. That all his skill and attention would be 
employed when instructing his darling child in her art 
was certain. The young lady herself had made her 
"first appearance on any stage" in Paris, under my 
own auspices, with very great success. Everything 
combined to throw an unusual " halo" around the prin- 
cipal " star" of the opening night. 

Without this amount of prestige, there is little doubt 



DEBUT OF CAROLINE DUPEEZ. 299 

that the performance of Mademoiselle Duprez would 
have excited the enthusiasm which really was displayed. 
Her extreme youth and attractive person would 
have disarmed any rigid criticism on the part of the 
public. But she needed no indulgence, and might fairly 
be judged according to her own undeniable merits — 
viz., exquisite style and finish. Her performance, as 
an actress, offered the charm of maidenly simplicity. 
Mademoiselle Duprez was not the great tragic heroine 
torn by conflicting passions ; she was the shrinking, timid 
girl, driven by the very suppression of her feelings into 
madness. If she displayed no especial power, she was, 
on the other hand, allowed to be more nearly akin, in 
manner and feeling, to the original conception of the 
great master of romance than any of her predecessors. 
Her voice was clear though not full, indicating pre- 
mature fatigue, the consequence of her exertions as a 
Tocal prima donna at the " Grand Opera." The only 
drawback to an otherwise excellent performance was a 
feeling prevalent among her approving hearers, that her 
physical capabilities were overtaxed. But this the 
father never felt, as his heart filled and his eyes over- 
flowed with the legitimate pride which his daughter's 
first and favourable venture before a London audience 
excited within him. 

The opening night of the season of 1851 was further 
signalized by the production of a new hallet, " L'Isle 
des Amours," for the reappearance of Mademoiselle 
Ferraris, whose debut in the previous season had added 
another accomplished and admired danseuse to my 
already strong list. This new choreographic display 
was emphatically termed a " Watteau-Ballet," and was 
daintily decked out with all the costumes and accessories 



300 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of the ideal world of hooped and beribanded shepherds 
3nd shepherdesses, and bewigged and bespangled denizens 
of an impossible court, copied from the works of the 
charming painter of festal romance. Animated groups 
of mortals and immortals appeared in porcelain tableaux. 
There was a peculiar grace and captivation about this 
embodiment of an artist's whimsical fancies, well fitted to 
command success, although its varying "tableaux" were 
threaded, like old-fashioned gems, upon the string of a 
very slender plot. In obedience to the prevalent fashion, 
it was the habit of maUres de ballet, about this time, to 
give their compositions as little plot as possible for list- 
less brains to unravel, instead of taxing their own in the 
invention or arrangement of some story of interest, such 
as might serve to display the mimic powers of the artists 
and merit the name of a ballet d'action. Mademoiselle 
Ferraris, already so favourably received, fully established 
herself as a London favourite, as well by her grace and 
charm of manner, as by her extraordinary force and 
precision of mechanical execution. 

The first of my long list of novelties produced in this 
Annus Mirabilis was the " Gustave III." of Auber. A 
version of this melodious and popular opera, it is true, 
had been given, very many years previously, in an 
English form at Drury Lane, under the management of 
Mr. Bunn. But, although supported by the best 
English singers of the day, it remained in the memory of 
old playgoers only as a vehicle for a striking bal 
masque, in which the paying portion of the public had 
been permitted to join, under certain conditions. Of 
its music the once famous " Galop^'' which at a time when 
the galpp began to be in vogue had spread from Paris to 
London, alone lingered in the memory. But the opera, as 



"gustave in." 301 

a whole, was entirely new to the Anglo-Italian stage, and 
was now first given in its entirety (excepting some 
slight excisions), by some of the most prominent artists 
of the day. The ingenious libretto of Monsieur Scribe, 
brightly coloured as it was by the sparkling melodies of 
Auber, and presenting a series of highly dramatic and 
musical " situations," was certain to command a great 
success. Indeed, by some of his cotemporaries, this 
opera was looked upon as Auber's clief-d! oeuvre. With 
the aid of a troupe of singers, more than efficient even 
in minor details, and illustrated by splendid " scenery 
and appointments," " Gustave III." naturally became, in 
a far higher sense than before, the " town-talk" of 
London. 

With Madame Fiorentini, who had a fine voice and 
handsome person, as the principal soprano — with Made- 
moiselle Duprez as the sprightly page, and Calzolari, 
the conscientious tenor singer, in the part of Gustavus, 
this charming opera was " mounted" with advantages 
it had never before possessed.* The minor parts, sup- 
poit d by Poultier, a French tenor of note,f and 
Fed( rico Lablache, gave unusual weight and excellence 

* On the English stage, where the double qualities of acting and 
singing were in those days not to be found combined in one person, a 
tenor-lover was introduced to sing the music of Gustavus, whilst the 
part itself was acted by Mr. Warde, a tragedian of considerable merit. 
A similar arrangement of an operatic work had long before distinguished 
the English version of the " Barber of Seville," in which the part of 
Almaviva was enacted by a light comedian, whilst an additional cha- 
racter, one Morello, sang Rossini's music of the part. 

f Poultier was originally a working cooper in an establishment at 
Eouen, where his charming tenor voice attracted the attention first of 
his brother workmen, and then of persons of influence and note. He 
was then educated for the lyrical stage, and made a very considerable 
sensation on his first appearance in the part of Masaiiiello, at the 
Acaddmie Eoyale at Paris. 



302 EEMINISCEXCES OF THE OPERA. 

to the morceaux cP ensemble. Lorenzo, in the great basS 
part of Ankerstrom, was perhaps less competent to 
his task, which at least demanded a Coletti. Carlotta 
Grisi made her debut for the season as the principal 
danseuse in the " Divertissement des Folies,'' and gave 
additional lustre to the brilliant opera by her dancing 
in a pas originally illustrated by the Taglioni. 

In addition to the unquestionable attraction of 
" Gustavus," more remained in store for the dilettanti 
frequenting Her Majesty's Theatre, even before the 
closing for the Easter recess. With so many blows to 
strike during the season, I was obliged to let them full 
in hasty and hot succession. It may be recorded en 
passant, that Mademoiselle Duprez made a third suc- 
cessful venture as Amina in the " Sonnambula," pro- 
ducing, perhaps, more effect in this most hazardous of 
parts, (many other great rivals having been so associated 
with the character in the public mind) than in any other 
which she attempted. Coletti, also, made his debut for 
the season on this occasion in the secondary part of the 
Count, singing the " Vi Ravviso" to perfection. He 
likewise gave, on the same evening, some scenes from 
his great part of the Doge in the " Due Foscari." Other 
musical events must be hurried on in this " History," 
as belonging to the course of this busy season. 

The pre- Easter period was further to be signalized 
by the first representation on the boards of Her 
Majesty's Theatre of another of the great works of 
Auber, the " Muette de Portici," which now appeared 
at this theatre under the same (Italianized) title. 
Apart from the general popularity and universal attrac- 
tion of this seductive opera, new elements of interest 
and curiosity were thrown into it by the manage- 



"la MUTA DI POKTICI." 30^ 

ment. Although it may be inconsistent to speak 
first of the hallet department in the record of an opera, 
yet in an exceptional composition, where the heroine is 
played by a dumb woman (who even gives the title to 
the work), this may be pardoned; and certainly pre- 
cedence is on every account due to Mademoiselle Monti, 
who made her debut as Fenella. This highly-gifted 
Italian pantomimist gave the astonished spectators of 
Her Majesty's Theatre a thoroughly new '■'■muette." 
Her performance was that of a great, experienced 
actress^ and not, as hitherto, of a mere danseuse. 
Though never devoid of grace, her performance was 
marked by feeling, passion, and, above all, natural- 
ness of manner and attitude, and it gave a reality to 
the scene which the conventional gestures of a danseuse 
never can impart. 

It may be remarked that in the great ballets of 
action, so familiar to travellers in Italy, the principal 
characters are played by pantomimists, who do not 
dance. It is in the ballet, properly so called, or rather 
in the incidental divertissement, that the dancers alone 
appear, as in the incidental dances of an opera. 

Another striking debut on the same occasion was that 
of Massol, the esteemed French barytone, whose Pietro 
was considered in Paris, as it was hailed by the London 
public, as the one and unrivalled Pietro of the lyrical 
stage. Such a thorough artist, both as singer and 
actor, was a great acquisition to the company of Her 
Majesty's Theatre. A host of " first appearances" were 
still in reserve : Pardini, a tenore di forza, vigorous 
and dramatic, as Masaniello ; Scotti, a tenor with a 
pleasant voice, as Alfomo ; Mercuriali, a painstaking 
second tenor, as Lorenzo. The group of artists was 



304 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

completed by Madame Fiorentini, in the character of 
Elvira ; and Mademoiselle Ferraris, along with that ac- 
complished dancer, Monsieur Charles, in the incidental 
tarantella. With such a combination, with a highly 
effective organization of the ensemble, in choruses as 
well as in scenic appliances, " La Muta di Portici" 
formed a truly valuable element of attraction in this 
bustling, busy year. 

Easter came, and went; and Her Majesty's Theatre 
reopened with the same feverish excitement. The 
great operatic battle of the most important season 
yet known was now to be fought. There was 
busy preparation in the camp on every side. The 
forces of the main army of attack were now marshalled, 
all " eager for the fray," as they felt how important to 
them were the laurels to be won on the operatic field 
before that " Congress of All Nations." The first shot 
fired on the reopening night could only be looked upon 
as a preliminary flourish. The heavy artillery may be 
said to have been first brought into play on the occasion 
of Lablache's reappearance as the inimitable repre- 
sentative of Dulcamara in the " Elisir." Mademoiselle 
Duprez, with her finished vocalization and her child- 
like, graceful vivacity, contributed to make the opening 
fire tell effectively; but the genuine attack was still 
to come. 

A goodly array was ready to advance, comprising 
Madame Sontag, Sophie Cruvelli, Madame Ugalde, 
Catherine Hayes, Barbieri-Nini, and Mademoiselle 
Nau, the then puissant Alboni completing the list. 
Amid such a " starry host," lesser artists, like Alaymo 
and Giuliani, disappeared. " Lucrezia Borgia" restored 
the ever-welcome Gardoni, so often killed by wicked 



"masque of the exhibition." 305 

rumour, so often resuscitated to the delight of his ad- 
mirers. Moreover, a great night, which was to form 
one of the salient events of the season, if not of the 
history of my management, was at hand. The evening 
of the 1st of May, the day when the " Great Exhibition" 
was to be opened to " all nations," was deemed 
worthy to be celebrated by an especial homage. The 
celebration took place unannounced by any " puff pre- 
liminary," but was worthy of the occasion. 

After a brilliant performance of the " Muta di 
Portici," the curtain rose upon a well-devised scene of 
the monster " Crystal Palace" (the first of that illus- 
trious species), and the surrounding landscape of Hyde 
Park. The stage was crowded with a vast assemblage 
of the whole company in the dresses of the people of all 
lands, who were to be welcomed. An " occasional ode," 
composed by Balfe, the conductor, heralded the sym- 
bolical congress of " Peace and Goodwill" among nations. 
Characteristic dances of different European- countries, 
given by the whole force of the choreographic establish- 
ment, and grouped in a clever divertissement, carried 
out the prevailing idea ; whilst the " National Anthem" 
told of England's triumph as of its loyalty. This 
" Masque of the Great Exhibition," as the performance 
might have been appropriately called, was as happily 
executed as it was cleverly conceived; and with scenes 
from the " Matrimonio Segreto" for Lablache, and 
further displays of the resources of the ballet, the 
" Exhibition" season certainly did open with unusual 
eclat. 

The reappearance of Madame Sontag, the chief star in 
the constellation of the opera firmament, may be said to 
have been merely a prelude to her performance in one 

X 



306 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of the many new operas which were destined to follow — 
hardly less in number than the various prime donne 
who were to figure in them. Madame Sontag resumed 
her position at Her Majesty's Theatre in her own 
charming impersonation of La Figlia. She came again 
apparently as young as ever. The sarcastic remark 
applied to a lady in one of Scribe's comedies, " Last 
year she was thirty — next year she will be only twenty- 
nine," seemed to have passed from irony to truth. 
Her success had been uninterrupted during my direc- 
tion of the Italian Opera in Paris in the past winter. 
To the artist the magic of success is the best elixir, as 
happiness is to all the most eflScacious cosmetic. Again 
she shone forth, not only with her faultless execution, 
but with that mixture of naivete, affectionate playful- 
ness, arch humour, and exuberance of animal spirits, 
which had exercised so powerful a charm towards the 
close of the previous season. 

The new opera — the first entirely new opera of the 
season — -was '^ Le Tre N ozze" pf Alary, Which had been 
first produced during my opera^ampaign in Paris, and 
had there won genuine applause. The light and graceful 
music of this opera seems to have been more especially 
suited to the taste of the Parisians, who, led away by 
their enthusiasm beyond their sounder judgment, ap- 
plauded every morceau, a I'outrance.* The " Tre Nozze" 
was not equally fortunate in England. That the new 
opera succeeded is unquestionable, and also that it 

* One scene more than all took the fancy of the Jidbituis of the Ita- 
liens, and was sufficient alone to ensure the success of Monsieur Alary'a 
work — a scene in which the unwieldy Lablache was taught to dance the 
polka by the object of his adoration, personated by Madame Sontag, 
In this instance, at least, it was as pleased children, not as sound lorers 
0f music, that {;he Parisians applauded. 



" LE TEE NOZZE." 307 

" drew money to the treasury." The pretty, sparkling 
melodies which pervaded the whole piece were sure to 
please. The canvas upon which the composer had em- 
broidered his bright and dazzling flowers of melody was 
flimsy enough in itself — a compilation made out of the 
" Monsieur de Pourceaugnac" of Moliere, with a score 
of well-known "situations" borrowed from as many 
well-known farces. The composer also may be said, 
like the librettist, to have been as much inspired by 
memory as by invention. His airs came pleasantly to 
the ear, like the whispers of old friends ; but they were 
so delightfully culled, so gracefully presented in the new 
vase of this opera buffa, that few but the very critical 
could fail to exclaim "How charming!" or be unwilling 
to greet once more the dear old favourites in a new 
garb. The polka, sung by Lablache and Madame Sontag, 
caught every ear, was hummed by every amateur, was 
copied on every hand-organ, was sought for eagerly 
at every music-shop: it has remained a favourite to 
this very day. With such excellent elements of passing 
success, no wonder that the " Tre Nozze" was received 
with favour, if not with triumphant enthusiasm as ia 
Paris. 

The admirable acting of Lablache, seconded as he 
was by the exquisite grace and humour of Madame 
Sontag, would have carried a far less catching opera to 
a favourable issue. It was worthy to be ranked with 
the best scenes in the " Matrimonio" or " Don Pas- 
quale." His efforts to learn courtly manners, as a shy 
and embarrassed provincial nobleman — his attempts to 
follow his inamorata in the hurried " mazes of the 
dance" — his awkward experiments at love-making, 
whilst they suggested the gambols of a young hippo- 

x2 



308 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

potamus, never " o'erstepped the modesty of nature." 
Gardoni, with Mesdames Giuliani and Ida Bertrand, 
contributed to the charming ensemble ; and Signor Fer- 
ranti, a young, lively, and most promising light bary- 
tone, made a very successful debut on the occasion. 
Thus put before the audience of Her Majesty's Theatre, 
" Le Tre Nozze" formed an agreeable variety in the 
repertoire of the season. 

Although " novelty" was the watchword of the year, 
yet no season could pass without "Don Giovanni;" 
and " Don Giovanni" was accordingly welcomed, in its 
turn, even by the most steady clamourers against the 
hackneyed and familiar. " Don Giovanni," in truth, 
could never be old, could never be worn out. As Nina 
de I'Enclos in her climacteric not only swayed the 
hearts of her admirers by her unfading charms but 
carried off the adorers of her younger rivals, so did the 
master-opera resume its supremacy, in spite of all the 
fresher beauties of " Young Music." With the excep- 
tipn of Madame Fiorentini as Donna Anna, and Cal- 
zolari as Ottavio, the " cast" was the same as in the 
previous season. The admirers of " Don Giovanni," it 
should be remarked, have always consisted rather of the 
general public than of the regular habitues of the Italian 
Opera. I once heard a gentleman belonging to the last 
category say, that he would rather stand in the rain 
outside Her Majesty's Theatre, than go inside and 
listen to " Don Giovanni." 

But claims press on; and the path must be cleared 
for another prima donna, and another novelty — at all 
events a " novelty" on the boards of Her Majesty's 
Theatre. Sophie Cruvelli was to return to the same 
stage where she had been already admired and ap- 
plauded, notwithstanding the diflSculty of her position 



CRUVELLl IN "FIDELIO." 309 

during one of the triumphant " Jenny-Lind seasons;" 
and she was to return with matured powers and profit- 
able experience. Sims Beeves was to be welcomed 
once more in Italian opera. Both were to appear in 
Beethoven's great work, " Fidelio," which under these 
auspices was to find a home for the first time within 
the walls of Her Majesty's Theatre. Both Cruvelli 
and Sims Eeeves had been eminently successful in the 
first winter of my luckless venture at the Italian 
Opera of Paris. The lady especially was firmly estab- 
lished in the hearts of the Parisians, with whom, as 
was said by a great personage, sh& was " sympathique 
au possible." 

Doubtfully interesting as the music of the great 
Beethoven's one opera may be to those exclusively 
brought up in the admiration of the modern Italian 
style — or, rather, much as it may be beyond the musical 
intelligence of minds educated almost solely for the 
florid dramatic school — it is sure in England, although 
never very popular in the land of its birth, to com- 
mand appreciating and admiring audiences. The an- 
nouncement of " Fidelio" is as certain to fill a theatre 
with a numerous throng of dilettanti as " Don Gio- 
vanni" is to attract other classes. Whatever may be said 
in prejudiced disparagement of English musical acquire- 
ments, English taste and judgment never fail to vindi- 
cate themselves on occasions of the performance of great 
musical master- works. " Fidelio" assembled an over- 
flowing concourse of music-lovers within the walls of 
Her Majesty's Theatre. Nor was this crowd assembled 
in vain. The performance of Mademoiselle Cruvelli as 
the hero-heroine of this mighty opera proved a well- 
deserved and unquestionable triumph. 

Mention has been already made of the unmistakeable 



310 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

genius of this gifted young artist. But it was a genius, 
•wild, erratic, reckless, uncontrollable by the dictates of 
pure, rigid taste in art. This genius was unquenched, 
as it was unquenchable ; but it had now been modified 
by labour, experience, and time. Something of its 
former waywardness undoubtedly remained; but the 
fire, the inspiration, the instinctive intelligence, were 
certain to exercise an electric spell. Mademoiselle Cru- 
velli's performance of Fidelio was magnificent, both in 
singing and acting. The sympathies of the audience were 
stirred to the quick. The production of the opera was 
one of the greatest events of a season prolific in events. 
The English tenor had his due in-this memorable even- 
ing. Sims Eeeves sang with a degree of feeling, as well 
as power, which elicited warm approbation among his 
supporters and admirers, and must have silenced the 
cavillings of the detractors of " native talent." The 
reverence and care with which a work of Beethoven 
had been treated by the management were sufficiently 
evidenced by the enrolment of all the principal artists 
of the theatre to lend their services on this great occa- 
sion. Among those who added to the ensemble by 
joining in the celebrated " Chorus of Prisoners" were 
to be found the names of Gardoni, Calzolari, Pardini, 
Massol, F. Lablache, Ferranti, and Lorenzo. The per- 
formance was one of singular excellence; and the 
memorable " Fidelio" evening established Mademoiselle 
Cruvelli, in unprejudiced English minds, as one of the 
greatest lyrical artists of the day. 

Events still pressed on. Scarcely had the bills 
heralded Madame Sontag to appear in the " Barbiere" 
and in " Don Pasquale ;" scarcely could Cruvelli give 
another " taste of her quality" in " Norma," where, dis- 



"IL PEODIGO." 311 

daining all traditional "points," and relying on her own 
inspiration, she once more fairly " took the house by 
storm," even to disposing the hearer to forget the famous 
Norma of Madame Grisi; scarcely had Caroline 
Duprez a poor "brief hour" allotted her wherein to 
please her admirers in one act of the " Lucia," and 
Sims Eeeves the same spare allowance to shine in a 
truncated portion of his great and favourite part — 
another " taking" novelty Avas forcing its way forwards 
to the footlights, and previously-established glories gave 
way to leave room to do honour to the stranger. 

The production of the " Enfant Prodigue" of Auber, 
the popular composer of the " Muette de Portici" and 
" Gustave III.," was undoubtedly a great operatic event. 
This latest " grand" opera of the fertile maestro had 
obtained a great success in Paris, although perhaps not 
equal to that which had made the two above-mentioned 
operas standard works for a generation at least. Com- 
posed to a libretto supplied by the most ingenious as well 
as the most prolific of modern dramatists, the music was 
already placed upon a high pedestal of interest. A cer- 
tain curiosity, also, was occasioned by the fact that the 
subject was founded on the well-known parable of Holy 
Writ, and might thus be deemed objectionable to 
English feeling. It may be said at once, that every such 
fear was dissipated at once. The simple tale of the son, 
seduced from the peaceful home of his fathers by the 
glittering promises of a town life, led by designing ad- 
venturers into every dissipation by which they profit; 
plunged by his passions into excesses which entail as 
their natural result, misery and repentance; and then, 
humbled and abashed, seeking forgiveness and peace cf 
mind in his desert home — all this had been set forth 



312 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

by the rare and clever dramatist in a manner which 
could awaken no religious susceptibilities on the score 
of the story. A highly interesting and exciting plot 
had been skilfully worked into the original simple 
donnee, so as to afford all the elements of dramatic com- 
plication, at the same time that it offered a framework 
for pompous and picturesque magnificence, in the way 
of scenery, decoration, and costume. 

Perhaps, in his illustrative music, Auber had not fully 
reached the simple sublimity of his subject. It was 
possibly beyond the nature of the lively Frenchman. 
But he had showered his rich store of melody abun- 
dantly upon the work, and had given to the world 
operatic pieces by turns grand, animated, and pathetic, 
and almost invariably dramatic and pleasing in charac- 
ter. He had also bestowed a couleur locale upon his 
music, fully befitting a story the scene of which lay 
between the tents of the Israelites, the Desert, and 
Egyptian Memphis. The rare intuition by which 
Auber was guided in his applications of a due couleur 
locale to his subject, and which has been so ably dis- 
played" in his " Muette" (Neapolitan), his " Domino 
Noir" (Spanish), and now again in the Oriental charac- 
ter of his " Enfant Prodigue," was almost mar- 
vellous in a musician who had never quitted his own 
country, and probably rarely wandered beyond the walls 
of Paris. 

The " cast" was very strong, including Gardoni as 
the erring child, Massol as his father, Sontag as his be- 
trothed, Coletti as the High-priest of Isis. Massol 
especially achieved a great triumph by his exquisite 
rendering of a pathetic romance, sung where the dis- 
tracted father seeks his lost son among the Memphian 



"IL PRODIGO." 313 

crowds — a morceau which had created a perfect furore 
as executed by him in Paris. He leaped at once into a 
far higher position on the Anglo-Italian stage than he 
had hitherto occupied. Madame Ugalde, one of -the 
most admired of modern French florid singers, and 
withal a piquante and lively actress, was included also in 
the " cast," though in a minor part; and, on thus making 
her first appearance, was received with the honours due 
to her great reputation. Eosati, too, won fresh laurels as 
the chief of the " Alm^es" in a pas de poignards — a 
dance in which wild Oriental music, accompanying 
measures equally fanciful, and increasing in frenzy of 
character as poniards flashed and forms whirled around, 
fairly bewildered the dazzled spectator, and brought 
down a perfect hurricane of applause. The music, as 
well as the characteristic movements of this once famous 
" Pas de Poignards," may still be heard in many " ex- 
travaganzas" and pantomimes of the present day 
(1864). It never fails of exciting its old accustomed 
*' sensation." In spite of hypercritical grumblings at 
what was termed " flimsy French music," there is no 
doubt that the " Prodigo," thus brilliantly executed, 
and placed upon the stage with a lavish magnificence 
which equalled if it did not surpass that of the " Aca- 
d^mie" in Paris, was one of the great successes of this 
brilliant season. Her Majesty the Queen, especially, 
expressed the delight she experienced in witnessing this 
opera. The success was even greater than on its first 
production in Paris. A spirit had been infused into it 
by the dashing " leading" of Balfe, always lively and 
spirited in his style, which had not existed under the 
more formal and heavy working of the Parisian orches- 
tra; and on the stage of Her Majesty's Theatre the 



314 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

ensemble, especially as regarded the female singers, was 
really of a decidedly higher order. 

Two grand morning concerts, and then came the re- 
vival of the pleasant although thoroughly antiquated 
" La Prova d'un Opera Seria" of Gnecco, for the purpose 
of giving Madame Ugalde an opportunity of displaying 
to advantage her vocal agility and her powers of comic 
acting, by the side of such a compeer as Lablache. A 
revival of the " Sylphide" took place, for Marie Taglioni 
to follow in the steps of her illustrious aunt. These, 
however, were only little hors d'ceuvres to amuse the 
public whilst another " course" of more solid fare was 
in preparation to be served up before it. Another 
novelty, again exciting considerable interest and curio- 
sity in the musical world, was nigh at hand. 

It had long been rumoured that Sigismund Thalberg, 
the celebrated pianist, was sedulously engaged on an 
opera, " expressly composed for Her Majesty's Theatre." 
The wonderful execution of this accomplished artist, 
combined with a peculiar largeness of style in his compo- 
sitions for the pianoforte, had already won for him high 
" name and fame." But as yet he had never written 
for the lyrical stage. He was known to be a sound 
musician, and, for some time past, to have given all his 
intelligence to dramatic composition. No wonder, then, 
that the first performance of " Florinda, or the Moors in 
Spain," music by Thalberg, libretto by Scribe, should 
have caused much excitement, and filled the area of Her 
Majesty's Theatre to suffocation. Thalberg had long 
been admired, appreciated, and respected in England. 
His friends were numerous, the worshippers of his talent 
as a pianist countless. Ail had a most legitimate object 
for their curiosity and interest. 



THALBERG'S "ILOEINDA." 315 

To say that the " Florinda" of Thalberg failed of 
success would be saying too much; yet it would be 
untrue to assert that the success was uncontested. The 
music was careful, elaborate, "musician-like.'' The 
excessive elaboration, indeed, of all his pieces was alone 
sufficient to militate against general appreciation of his 
many striking merits. In a letter from Monsieur Scribe, 
who wrote expressing his great grief that severe illness 
prevented his superintendence of rehearsals, we find the 
following passage — '■^ Le seul eonseil queje puisse vous 
donner c'est de /aire la guerre aux longueusr ; car il 
doit toujours y en avoir immensement dans le premier 
ouvrage dramatique d'un compositeur. Coupez le plus 
possible! Ce qui est retranclie ne fait jamais mauvais 
effet." The experienced dramatist spoke the truth. 

" Florinda" was generally voted " dull." Its very 
careful masterly character stood in its way, when dra- 
matic fire (of less sterling quality, perhaps) might have 
carried the day. In justice to the composer it must be 
added, that never had the able dramatist produced 
a duller work than this disjointed and uninteresting 
libretto. " Aliquando dormitat Homerus." Unfortu-- 
nately for M. Thalberg, his collaborateur seemed to 
have allowed his brighter faculties to go to sleep over 
the somewhat soporific and well-worn story of the 
treachery of Count Julian, in revenge for the seduction 
of his daughter.* Nothing could have been more 
favourable to the success of " Florinda" than the talent 



* It seems highly probable that this opera-book was one of Scribe's 
earlier efforts, vamped up for the occasion — a galvanized mummy of 
old days, in French theatrical language, generally called an " ours." It 
is scarcely, possible that his matured experience could have proved so 
much at fault. 



316 REMINISCENCES Of THE OPERA. 

and zeal of a group of artists, among whom were Sophie 
Cruvelli, Sims Beeves, Calzolari, Coletti, and Lablache. 
Cruvelli exerted her powerful energies to the utmost, 
and with wonderful effect. All did their best ; and how 
good that best was, opera -goers of 1851 can tell. The 
management had decked out the opera with scenery and 
costumes of great magnificence. A slight additional 
attraction was afforded in the debut of Marie Cruvelli 
(sister of the admired prima donna), as a contralto, in 
the small part of a page. But " Florinda" was not 
fated to live. The carefully-reared bantling, in fact, 
wanted the essential conditions of vitality. 

But let it not be supposed that " Florinda" was a 
positive failure. It received the very highest post of 
honour of the season, inasmuch as it was played " by 
command" on the occasion of a grand " State visit" of 
her Majesty to the . " old opera-house." This much- 
prized solemnity was held with peculiar significance, 
and with even more than usual splendour, in a year 
when "all the world" was assembled in the. crowded 
capital of England. More than ever, this mingling of 
Royalty with subject in public wore the aspect of a 
national celebration. The . selection of " Florinda" on 
this occasion gave M. Thalberg's opera a peculiar Mat. 
Although no royal patronage could endue the work with 
life, at least it shed honour over its unavoidable death. 

Again the record of a fine performance of " Le Nozze 
di Figaro," with Sontag," Cruvelli, Fiorentini, Coletti, 
Ferranti, and Lablache — of "Ernani," with Cruvelli 
and Sims Reeves — and of a reunion of Rosati, Taglioni, 
and Ferraris, in " Les Graces" — of a night of " Spanish 
Dancers" — all must be cast aside for more and yet more 
" novelty." 



MADEMOISELLE NAU. 317 

Mademoiselle Alboni was still to come, adding another 
to the long list of prime donne, and bringing another 
novelty in her hand from Paris. After a preliminary 
performance of " La Cenerentola," Mademoiselle Alboni 
made her real debut for the season in the latest compo- 
sition of Auber, written expressly for her during her 
engagement at the Parisian " Academic" — " Zerline, ou 
la Corbeille d'Oranges." Being written, however, in 
haste, in order to utilize the talent of Alboni during 
a brief engagement at the great French Opera, this 
trifle was far from contributing to the fame of the 
deservedly admired French composer. Facility, adroit- 
ness, ingenuity, abounded throughout the work, but its 
forms of melody were undeniably trite. Even those 
portions of the music expressly composed for the mar- 
vellously liquid execution of Mademoiselle Alboni were 
of little interest, or at all events not of that high order 
of interest which the genius of Auber warranted his 
hearers to expect. Nor had his fertile collaborateur, 
Scribe, been much more felicitous. His portion of the 
work, like that of the musician, was marked by inge- 
nuity, cleverness, and facility; but the same triteness, 
the same absence of freshness and originality, were ob- 
servable in the drama and in the music to which it was 
joined. " Zerlina" served to stimulate the curiosity of 
the public for a night, and to introduce to the boards of 
Her Majesty's Theatre that clever and florid French 
songstress. Mademoiselle Nau (a lady already favourably 
known in London), who resumed her original part, 
" created" (as the French have it) at the Academic 
Royale. 

" Zerlina" can scarcely be said to have been pushed 
aside to make way for "coming events." It trilled 



318 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

through its night, and then gracefully retired. " Com- 
ing events," however, were again pressing forward. 
After a performance of " Linda di Chamouni," wherein 
both the sisters Cruvelli appeared, but which was less 
congenial to the wild and passionate nature of the 
charming Sophie than any of her more tragic parts — 
after a revival of " La Gazza Ladra," to afford Made- 
moiselle Alboni an opportunity of appearing in a part 
for which she had so strong a predilection, — the last in 
my seemingly endless list of prime donne for the season 
made her appearance in the person of Madame Barbieri- 
Nini. 

For many years Madame Barbieri-Nini had been one 
of Italy's greatest and most admired lyric artists. She 
had divided the operatic throne with Madame Tadolini 
■when that celebrated singer was in her prime. Some 
of Verdi's operas, most popular in Italy — " I Due Fos- 
cari," for instance, and " Macbeth" — were composed 
expressly for her; and it is an unquestionable fact that 
her performance in them mainly contributed to their 
popularity. It may have been considered strange that 
so illustrious a prima donna should never before have 
appeared on the Anglo-Italian stage. When she now 
at last did so, it was to obtain only a verdict which 
sounded distressingly like the phrase so often fatally 
repeated during the strong political events of the 
period — " It is too late." Her voice, once of the highest 
order, a pure soprano of wonderful compass and force, 
had deteriorated from the inevitable effects of time. 
Her execution was brilliant and bold, but gave the irre- 
sistible impression of a sort of reckless audacity. Her 
acting was energetic, and highly coloured by that southern 
ardour but too often verging upon exaggeration — a 



MADAME BARBIERI-NINI. 319 

style which Italians love, bnt which to cooler natures is 
apt to inspire a dread that the proverbial " one step" 
between " the sublime" and " the ridiculous" may be 
taken at any moment. It cannot be said that the 
^' step" was ever made ; still, this constant fear on the 
part of the audience, there is little doubt, signally 
marred the effect which the celebrated singer ought to 
have made upon the English public. Her performance 
in " Lucrezia Borgia" and in " Anna Bolena" created, 
however, a certain sensation among the habitues of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, in spite of the change in her 
once fine organ and her somewhat ■ ungainly move- 
ments. At all events, I felt justified in bringing before 
my subscribers a singer with whose fame all Italy re- 
sounded, even although my venture proved to have been 
made " too late." 

The fascinating Cerito figured also in this prolific 
year towards the close of the season, and once more 
charmed all lovers of the ballet in " Ondine." 

Another event, however, was still to come. For the 
benefit of the conductor, Mr. Balfe, was performed, for 
the first time on the Italian stage, that genial composer's 
opera " Les Quatre Fils d'Ayraon," under the title of 
" I Quattro Fratelli." " Les Quatre Fils d'Aymon" was 
first produced at the Opera Comique in Paris, and met 
with much success. It was equally admired in its 
English form when given at the Princess's Theatre, 
under the management of Mr. Maddox, as " The Castle 
of Aymon." But it was always in Germany that it 
enjoyed its greatest popularity. First produced at 
Vienna, it quickly visited every capital city and 
town in Germany, and was everywhere received with 
enthusiasm. To this day it remains a " stock opera," 



320 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

and every military band still executes, on all available 
occasions, the favourite melodies of " Die Vier Haimon's 
Kinder," Perhaps there is no one of Mr. Balfe's many 
operas which abounds so much in lively, spirited, and 
at the same time original melodies, as this happy inspi- 
ration. Owing to the composer's ingenious blending 
of the two characters of Italian and French styles of 
composition into a style that may be called per se 
" Balfian," this tuneful work lost nothing of its original 
effect when transferred to the Italian stage. The music 
may even be said to have acquired a fresh beauty from 
being conveyed to the audience in the Italian tongue. 
Comic verse and dramatic esprit were preserved, while 
the countless melodies of the work gained in mellifluous 
fluency. Sophie Cruvelli, aided by Gardoni, Pardini, 
Coletti, and Massol, secured a most effective and spirited 
execution for the work of their friend and fellow-artist; 
and Mr. Balfe earned, on the occasion of his benefit, a 
great and legitimate triumph. There was but one re- 
gret mingled with the performance of this charming 
opera — namely, that this genial addition to the reper^ 
toire of Her Majesty's Theatre was made " for this 
evening only," and that " I Quattro Fratelli" was not 
forthwith adopted and naturalized, as it were, on the 
Anglo-Italian stage. 

With this novelty we arrive at the last operatic 
" event" of a season signalized throughout by extraordi- 
nary variety both in operas and executants. The 
theatre terminated its " subscription nights " with 
great eclat. For a few weeks more Her Majesty's 
Theatre reopened for a series of representations at 
(what were called) " playhouse prices." This inno- 
vation, which the peculiar circumstances of this ex- 



REVIEW OF THE SEASON OE 1851. 321 

ceptional year and the enormous influx of sightseeing 
strangers rendered advisable, if not necessary, may be 
taken (spite its exceptional character) as a " sign of 
the times." It seemed as though a greater diffusion of 
musical education, joined to the creation of new locomo- 
tive facilities, had forced the great musical establish- 
ments to relax their traditional barriers of exclusive- 
ness, and gradually to open more and more to the 
public that arena which the aristocracy had hitherto 
regarded as its own. During these " extra" perform- 
ances, Sophie Cruvelli appeared (by virtue of that 
great right of " possession," which is generally regarded 
as "might" as well as "right," among dramatic circles) 
as Rosina in the " Barbiere," and as Amina in " La 
Sonnambula," both being characters already sung by 
Madame Sontag, whilst that " pet of the public" (for 
some time past absent from the boards), reappeared in 
" La Figlia," and in a portion only of " Otello." 
Madame Barbieri-Nini, and Madame Fiorentini were also 
brought before the public during these " extra nights." 
And when the doors of the great lyrical establishment 
finally closed upon the glories of 1851, efforts had been 
made, and results achieved in an artistic point of view, 
such as Her Majesty's Theatre, with all its bygone 
splendours, had never witnessed. Upon the whole, the 
year so brilliant in England's annals may be regarded 
as equally brilliant in those of the microcosm of the 
opera. Let me add that, in a financial point of view, the 
" Exhibition Season" of 1851 was profitable to the 
establishment. But the amount placed to the credit 
side of the treasury accounts did not cover the deficit 
already occasioned, more especially by the bad result of 



322 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the Italian Opera speculation in Paris. Every prospect 
held out by the original programme had not certainly 
been fulfilled. The production of the great ballet, an- 
nounced as written by M. de St. Georges expressly for 
Her Majesty's Theatre, had been found inexpedient; 
and I paid a large dedit to the disappointed author as a 
compensation. Poor unlucky Ricci also, who had fondly 
hoped to see one, at least, of his operas adopted on the 
boards, and had anticipated a journey to England to 
superintend rehearsals, was unavoidably, in the press of 
greater attraction, once more " put on the shelf." My 
desire, moreover, to place before my subscribers the 
latest composition of Rossini — a great hymn — was 

thwarted. A well-known connoisseur, Prince P , 

who had undertaken the task of inducing the great 
maestro (ever provokingly unwilling to appear again 
before the public) to yield to my entreaties, failed 
utterly in his delicate diplomatic negociation. But, in 
spite of these failures, far more was realized than had 
actually been expected. 

The "monster" fHe, given by me in the grounds 
of my charming villa at Fulham, was too immediately 
connected with the high position, the prestige, and the 
fortunes of the theatre, to be passed over without a 
record. These fites had (as has been stated in an 
earlier stage of this history) for some years past con- 
stituted a remarkable feature in the course of the 
operatic season. My desire to bring together on these 
great festive occasions the aristocracy of rank, of art, of 
science, of intellect, wherever it existed, had always been 
welcomed and heartily forwarded by the highest in the 
land. On each annual recurrence they formed one of 



FETE AT "the CHANCELLORS." 323 

the salient events of the " London Season," were the 
*' town-talk" of the day, and always excited a uni- 
versal desire to obtain invitations, which were regarded 
as a privilege and a distinction. One of their most 
piquant attractions was, in fact, the mingling of rank 
and fashion with the artistic body of singers and dancers. 
Dukes and duchesses danced on the " green sward" with 
sentimental tenors and sprightly danseuses. Foreign 
diplomacy used its wiles, but only to be agreeable to a 
" Queen of Song." Science talked gaily with a mighty 
basso, or a fascinating pn'ma donna. Music and Painting 
wandered sociably arm-in-arm along the margin of the 
Thames; and coronet, pen, brush, throat of priceless 
value, and lithesome limbs, all joined, amidst rich illu- 
minations and feux de Beng'ale, in one grande ronde of 
unrestricted hilarity and enjoyment. 

In the exceptional year of 1851, the year of "Eng- 
land's welcome to all nations," my Garden Fke was 
productive of even a more lively " sensation" than 
usual. The pleasant grounds were thronged not only 
with distinguished English company, and with the 
foreign diplomatists (who had an especial relish of the 
tutti frutti compound so daintily served up), but with 
most of the celebrated foreign guests at that time at- 
tracted to London by the Great Exhibition. Dinners had 
already been given by me during the season to many of the 
foreign " illustrious" in rank and talent who thronged 
the British metropolis, and who were invited to partake 
of my hospitality along with English noblemen and 
gentlemen. But on the day of the " monster f§te" a 
much larger number attended my summons. This par- 
ticular occasion may, indeed, almost be cited as the 

y2 



,324 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

" culminating point" of my hitherto prosperous fortunes. 
The base of the fabric might, possibly, be insensibly 
giving way, unfavourable winds may have already 
assailed the, structure from various quarters: neverthe- 
less my footing in theatrical and social circles, during 
many years, was perhaps never firmer than at the date 
of the brilliant f^te of this, the memorable Exhibition 
year, 1851.* 

Brilliant as was the aspect of the Exhibition year 
in London, however, dark clouds were overshadowing 
my horizon elsewhere. In my struggle against the diflS- 
culties and hindrances incident to my position, as 
Director of the Italian Opera in Paris (conjointly 
with my establishment in London), I had, I con- 
ceived, used my habitual tact, backed by long ex- 
perience, in the choice of my operatic troop and in my 
mode of dealing with the Parisian people. But the 
adverse elements with which I had to fight were too 
powerful. Recent revolutions, constant internal mis- 
trust, and political enmities, had induced the richer and 
more fashionable portion of French society to hold back 
altogether from social intercourse, and from those recre- 

* Monsieur Jnles Janin, the celebrated French author, who was pre- 
sent in London as "Exhibition correspondent" of the Journal des Di- 
hats, gave a published account of this fete, painted with all the varied 
colours of his rainbow pen, and sparkling with all the coruscations of 
his dazzling " firework" style. "Je nepeux pas vous sSparer," he writes, 
" de mon sijour dans voire bonne ville de Londres, ou j'ai die accueilli 
avec iant de faveur." " Albion, Alcyon Albion F' he writes again in 
extasy, when penning his regrets at quitting the country. In his ac- 
count of the Exhibition, he describes a dinner at my villa, at which 
Mr. Disraeli, M. Van der Weyer, the Dukes of Cleveland and Leinster, 
the Marquis of Clanricarde, M. Anthony de Eothschild, &c., &e., were 
present. 



THE COUP d'etat. 325' 

ations formerly indulged in by that class. The sudden' 
reaniraation of the " Societe du Faubourg St. Germain," 
on the occasion of the " Sontag concerts," has already 
been mentioned; but, unfortunately for me, this was 
only an exceptional case, and after its brief flash the 
Faubourg St. Germain relapsed into its former state of 
lethargy and habitual bouderie. Deprived of so influ-' 
ential a component part of the wealth, rank, and fashion 
of Paris, I had a severe contest to wage. I had carried 
on the season of 1850-51, in Paris, at a considerable 
loss; yet, nevertheless, I boldly undertook the new 
season of 1851-52, convinced that firmness and good 
management must obtain the victory " in the long 
run." But, again, it was impossible for me to foresee 
the storm that was once more about to burst suddenly 
over Parisian society; and, although the political atmo- 
sphere was certainly to some extent overcast, the Coup 
cPEtat of the 2nd December, 1851, fell upon Paris 
(and upon me!) like a thunderbolt. By this thunder- 
bolt the fortunes of the Italian opera, together with 
many other institutions of even superior importance, 
were shaken to their foundations.* 

* The loss, by circumstances over which I had no control, in the two 
disastrous seasons of 1850-1, and 1851-2, whilst directing the Italian 
Opera in Paris, amounted to nearly 500,000 francs, or 20,000Z. My 
loss however, painful as it was, never affected my sentiments with 
respect to the Emperor of the French. I was present in the streets, and 
can bear witness to the personal bravery of Louis Napoleon — a point 
which has been erroneously contested. During the conflict of the 
Cov/p d'Etat he was riding about at the head of his staff and exposing 
himself in all directions ; nor was this the only occasion on which I have 
had evidence of his cool self-possession amid unquestionable dangers. 

I can also bear witness to the fearful anxiety of all parties, 
and to their terror of the Bouges, until the Coup d'Etat relieved 



326 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

them of the nightmare iirhioh weighed upon every mind. In a 
conversation held a short time previously with the Marquis de Pas- 
toret, one of the chiefs of the Legitimist party and Treasurer to 
Henri V.> he openly avowed to me, " It is not now a question 
of this or that dynasty ; it is a question of our lives, our property, 
and the honour of our children." How deceived vi^ere many of our 
leading men respecting the Emperor! How often have I heard 
and combated opinions about him but little flattering to his abili- 
ties !— opinions which, after he had established his position in France, 
were replaced by the most laudatory phrases. 



327 



CHAPTER XXL 

The Season of 1853— Artists in Prospect— Mdlle. Wagner, Mdme. 
Sontag, Gardoni, Beletti, &e. — Disappointment created by Sontag'a 
Inability to come to England — Opening Night, April 1st, with 
"Maria di Eohan"— Feriotti— The Wagners' Breach of Engage- 
ment, caused by Mr. Gye's Endeavours to attach Mdlle. Wagner to 
the Covent Garden " Troupe" — Unfounded Eumours of Desertion 
on the Part of Leading Artists — Injurious EflFects of the Wagner 
Failure — The Friends of the Theatre hold a Meeting, with a View- 
to support the Director — High Quality of the Parties concerned 
in this Movement — Eesolutions adopted at the Meeting — Tendency 
of the Arrangement come to, not wholly advantageous — Madame 
Lagrange, her Value at this Juncture — Illusory Hopes of Sontag's 
Eeturn towards End of Season — Madame Charton engaged — Pro- 
duction of "Casilda" in August— Not successful — Close of the 
Season, under uneasy Auguries. 

As has already been intimated, the season of 1852 was 
not permitted to open with that confidence and sanguine 
reliance upon good fortune which had attended the 
director in previous years. Not only the consequences 
of the disastrous campaign in Paris, but many other 
untoward incidents which no experience could have 
parried and no foresight averted, militated against 
hopeful anticipations. The sunshine seemed to have 
departed from Her Majesty's Theatre; and certain 
gathering clouds were already dark enough to threaten 
a storm. 



328 REMINISCENCES Oil THE OPERA. 

The peculiar uncertainties and difficulties attendant 
upon the preparations for the ensuing campaign, pre- 
vented the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre until 
unusually late in the season. Kumours indeed had been 
gradually gaining ground to the intent that the theatre 
would not throw open its doors to the public at all. 
Rivalry and jealous enmity had too great an interest in 
fostering, if not propagating, such a report for the oppor- 
tunity to be lost. 

At length, however, I published my list of engage- 
ments, and my programme of performances for the 
season. At the head of the list appeared Madame 
Sontag, then in the zenith of her popularity, and 
Mademoiselle Johanna Wagner, a German prima donna, 
whose fame rivalled in her own country that of the once 
popular idol of all Northern Europe, Jenny Lind. On so 
high a pedestal, indeed, had Mademoiselle Wagner been 
placed, that the announcement of her appearance at Her 
Majesty's Theatre excited universal interest and curiosity 
among musical circles, absorbing operatic minds almost 
as much as had done the advent of the fame-heralded 
" Swedish Nightingale." A magnificent voice, a broad 
and grand school of vocalization, and a marvellous dra- 
matic power, joined to a comely person, were confidently 
asserted to form the almost unequalled attractions of 
this young lady, on whose co-operation the future fortunes 
of the establishment were now considered in a great 
measure to depend. On the list also was Mademoiselle 
Cruvelli, whose reputation in London stood deservedly 
high, and who was sure to be welcomed back to her post 
with enthusiasm; Madame Fiorentini also, who was a 
favourite in the eyes of a considerable portion of the 
subscribers; Mademoiselle Alboni, too, was to be ex- 



PJJOSPECTS OF 1852. 329 

pected ; and Mademoiselle Ida Bertrand was to be the 
" stock" contralto. The tenors were, Gardoni, Calzolari, 
and Pardini. Lablache — the great Lablache — was to lead 
the army of bass voices as heretofore, bringing with him 
his son. Beletti, once so popular, was again to contribute 
his aid on his return from the American expedition with 
Jenny Lind. Other old friends were expected to join 
the forces. In addition to the three leading tenors, 
another of Italian repute, Negretti, was to be looked 
for; and De Bassini, a barytone of note, was to add 
more strength to a troop already powerful. 

The prospects, as far as regarded a " strong com- 
pany," were as high as ever. With such a " hand" 
to play, I might still look forward to winning the 
game, and repairing the losses of fortune in the past. 
But an evil vein of luck had set in, and still ran adverse 
to the critical venture, sweeping away the manager's 
most sanguine hopes in its disastrous current. Firstly, 
arrived the intelligence, that Madame Sontag " could not 
come." She was ill (I heard to my discomfiture), with 
impaired powers, and a deterioration of the quality of 
her voice, which called imperatively for a rest of several 
months. With Madame Sontag fled also the hope 
which I had been allowed to cherish, that the popular 
maestro of the day, Giacomo Meyerbeer, would place in 
my hands for first representation at Her Majesty's 
Theatre, a new opera in which that excellent artist was 
to appear. It was but little consolation that Count 
Kossi wrote to him to express his hopes, with those of 
the Countess, that the success of Mademoiselle Wagner 
would more than compensate him for my disappoint- 
ment. The loss of two great trump cards was not to, 
be repaid by the " points" which a remaining " trump" 



330 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

might win. And again, this " card" also, on which I 
had built great expectations, was fated to be torn from 
my hand. 

As has been intimated, the management had de- 
pended upon Mademoiselle Wagner as the principal 
element of attraction in the way of novelty during the 
season of 1852. So great was her 'reputation that a 
new furore was confidently expected. The words 
" Wagner mania" and " Wagner crushes," it was 
thought, might supersede the old appellation of " Jenny 
Lind mania," and the old proverbial expression of " a 
Jenny Lind crush." So powerful was the -prestige of 
Mademoiselle Wagner's name at that period, and so 
confident the anticipations of her great success, that 
subscriptions among the operatic booksellers, the " mid- 
dlemen" of operatic lettings, were unprecedentedly large 
this season. Mr. Mitchell alone subscribed for 10,000Z. 
It is not the place here to dilate upon the workings for 
good or evil of this system, which has taken so firm a 
root in the theatrical affairs of London. 

All my brilliant anticipations were destined to be 
rudely destroyed by bad faith, chicanery, and meanness. 

Although the principal circumstances of this most 
unfortunate affair, which mainly contributed to the 
failure of the season, did not occur until after the open- 
ing of the theatre, it would be as well perhaps, even at 
the sacrifice of strict accuracy in the chronological order 
of events, to detail at once the relation which these 
circumstances bore to one of the most unfortunate periods 
of my management. 

Very many months previously I had sought to 
attach the great German prima donna to Her 
Majesty's Theatre, and through the intermediation of a 



WAGNER'S BREACH OF CONTRACT. 331 

Dr. Bacher, a friend and ally of the Wagner family, an 
engagement was concluded with Mademoiselle Wagner 
and her father. All was considered finally and con- 
clusively settled. I relied upon the good faith and fair 
dealing of the artists with whom the contract had "been 
ratified, as I had always done in similar cases. I had 
suftered before, it is true, from the vacillations, the 
overstrained susceptibilities and unsteadiness of purpose 
inherent in the Teutonic nature; but I had not been 
placed face to face with mean chicanery and disingenuous 
evasion of obvious truth. But now I was about to reap 
a harvest of sad experience. 

While I reposed upon my legitimate expectations, 
more tempting offers, it appeared, had been made to the 
lady by the management of the rival Italian Opera at 
Covent Garden. The prospect of increased gain was 
too alluring to be resisted by the natures with which I 
unfortunately had to deal. What was good faith, in 
their minds, when weighed in the balance with a some- 
what bigger heap of gold? They failed to recognise the 
very existence of any possible counterbalance. The 
engagement formally contracted was ignored — the friend 
was repudiated as a friend, and declared to be nothing 
more than an interested agent — the main facts (and 
well-established facts) of the whole negociation were 
boldly and unblushingly denied. The smallest pretext 
was employed to give a faint semblance of legitimate 
dealing to this repudiation of a fair contract. Certain 
stipulations as to not singing at other public places — 
stipulations always made and understood in all artistic en- 
gagements — had never, it was said, been strictly ratified 
by father and daughter. It was declared also that the 
previous payments which I had promised had not duly 



332 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

come to hand on the day and hour announced. But in the 
legal proceedings which naturally followed on this breach 
of faith, it turned out that neither of these two petty- 
"saving clauses" could be in any way established on 
behalf of Wagnerian trickery. 

The more lucrative engagement with the Covent 
Garden Opera was accepted by father and daughter; 
but the director of Her Majesty's Theatre could not 
submit to see one of his best "subjects" snatched from 
him to be added to the resources of the rival establish- 
ment. I applied for an injunction in Chancery to pre- 
vent Mademoiselle Wagner from appearing at the Italian 
Opera at Covent Garden. The injunction was granted. 
An appeal against this judgment was lodged in the su- 
perior court, to be argued before the Lord Chancellor. • 

Popular feeling, generally bestowed upon those who 
are wronged by quibbling chicanery and bad faith, was 
in this instance all on my side. It grew stronger when 
in a letter written by Herr Wagner, the father, appeared 
the insolent words, "England is to be valued only for 
her money." The indignation of the public at this 
display of vulgar greed and conceit waxed higher and 
higher. The explanation offered by the Wagner counsel, 
that the words should be translated, " Eiigknd is only 
able to reward with her money," was received in court 
with shouts of derision, as only giving a still worse 
interpretation to their meaning. The injunction was 
confirmed. Mademoiselle Wagner was unable to profit 
by the attempted trickery so far as to sing at Covent 
Garden ; but by the legal decision I did not obtain 
her services at my own establishment. The loss was 
confirmed — the damage done. Mademoiselle Wagner 
found herself obliged to return to Germany, the dis- 



THE WAGNER QUARREL. 333 

appointed victim of a grasping avarice, " that o'erleaps 
itself." 

Legal proceedings were by no means terminated by 
the confirmation of the injunction; and an action was 
brought by me against Mr. Gye, the director of theCovent 
Garden Opera, for damages to the amount of 20,000Z. 
After a variety of legal and other impediments and 
delays, such as appear inevitably to attend upon law- 
suits (but which, deeply interesting as they were to 
paities concerned, can but little interest the modern 
reader), judgment in this case was given in the Court 
of Queen's Bench in favour of the plaintiff; one judge 
however, out of the four, being dissentient. 

The final settlement of this long-protracted cause 
came forward on the 20th February, 1853. During the 
proceeding of the action, everything had seemed to in- 
timate that the jury would give heavy damages. So strong 
was the impression, that Sir Alexander Cockburn, who 
was on the side of the defendant and had been obliged, 
by other business, to leave the court before the verdict, 
sent afterwards to know the amount of the damages 
given. But, to the surprise of all concerned, the jury, 
though finding a verdict for the plaintiff, refused all 
damages, on the plea that there was not sufficient 
evidence of Mr. Gye's previous knowledge of the 
contract existing between me and the Wagners. 

Some weeks previously to the final blow struck in this 
ill-starred affair — wherein the favourable decision in my 
favour had become a " dead letter" as far as regarded my 
own advantage, leaving me only heavy legal expenses 
to defray — the theatre had opened for the season. It had 
opened amidst uiicertainties, anxieties, and harassing 
legal actions (besides the wretched Wagner quarrel), 



334 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

connected with the fortunes of the establishmenti So 
soon as the body appeared faint, and likely to give way 
beneath the great pressure of disaster, the vultures ga- 
thered in force in the darkening air. 

On Thursday, April 1st (an ill-omened day, presaging 
as it were a mocking and delusive result), 'the splendid 
interior of Her Majesty's Theatre was at last thrown 
open to the .public with Donizetti's opera of " Maria di 
Bohan," in which Signor Ferlotti, a barytone of great 
note and considerable power, made his first appearance 
in the important part of De Chevreux, supported by 
Madame Fiorentini, Mademoiselle Ida Bertrand, and 
Calzolari. As a singer of a fine quality of voice, a well- 
exercised " method" of the modern Italian school, con- 
siderable feeling, and no small powers as an actor, 
Ferlotti made a most favourable impression, but not an 
impression of that commanding nature which could place 
him, with all his merits, among the " stars" of the 
season, whose lustre could in any way illuminate the 
beclouded fortunes of the theatre. Madame Guy Stephan 
was the only support of the ballet on the opening night. 
Amidst the cruel uncertainties of the preliminary pre- 
parations, no more could be done for the brilliancy of 
the choreographic department on that occasion. The 
superior artists of the ballet were yet to be mustered i 
Beletti, the same steady singer who had been a favourite 
during the Jenny Lind seasons, was shortly afterwards 
added to the forces of the establishment, and on the 
occasion of his reappearance was enthusiastically wel- 
comed in Eossini's rarely-given oj)ei'a buffa, " L'lta- 
liana in Algieri." This opera had been selected for the 
debut of Mademoiselle D' Angri, a contralto of some merit 
and repute, who achieved her succes d'estime without 



CLODDED PBOSPECTS. 335 

materially advancing the interests of the theatre. She 
appeared shortly afterwards in " La Cenerentola," but 
■without creating any marked sensation. She was, how- 
ever, an excellent artist. As for more powerful allies, 
Cruvelli, Lablache, and Gardoni came to the rescue in 
the "Norma." Lablache was the Lablache, the favourite 
among favourites, at once the cherished artist, the father 
and the dear old friend of all who bore afiection to Her 
Majesty's Theatre. Gardoni was still one of the most 
popular of tenors, having then but one other tenor with 
■whom to contest the palm on the Anglo-Italian stage 
of London. Cruvelli was unquestionably, and with 
legitimate right, a great attraction. In the " Barbiere," 
in her pathetic impersonation of the " Fidelio," in " Er- 
nani," in " La Sonnambula," this gifted prima donna 
worked zealously and energetically to conjure the spell of 
disaster from within the walls of Her Majesty's Theatre ; 
but the spell was too strong to be broken by even so 
powerful a genius as Mademoiselle Sophie Cruvelli. 
Gallantly, also, strove in the cause Lablache, Gardoni, 
Calzolari, Beletti, and Ferlotti. But victory could not, 
nay, will not always crown the most heroic deeds of arms. 
Rosati, again, did her best to dazzle all eyes and win 
all hearts in vain; the spell rested still with malignant 
influence upon the edifice, and was not to be dissolved, 
even by the enchantments of enchanters so able and so 
loyally devoted. 

To the treachery of the Wagners, father and daughter, 
must be chiefly attributed the disadvantageous position 
in which the direction of Her Majesty's Theatre was now 
placed. The defalcation of the star, relied upon as the 
primum mobile of attraction had, from the first, thrown 
all the arrangements of the establishment into confusion. 



336 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

The confidence of the public, which judges by results , 
not causes, was destroyed. The non-arrival of Madame 
Sontag, whose name still continued to appear in the 
catalogue of forthcoming attractions, increased the gene- 
ral dissatisfaction. In the meanwhile, the most damaging 
reports were sedulously propagated, and were on all 
sides current in the " chit-chat" of the day, to the infi- 
nite detriment of the establishment. Now it was confi- 
dently asserted that the theatre would immediately close ; 
now it was rumoured that Gardoni was about to leave 
the company; next that Mr. Balfe, the conductor, in- 
tended to secede ; now again that Lablache was dissatis- 
fied, and Cruvelli anxious to depart. Most of these 
pernicious rumours were in every way premature, al- 
though in some respects they received partial confirma- 
tion at a later period. Mademoiselle Cruvelli, having 
received tempting offers from the Grand Opera at Paris, 
was the first to quit the theatre. When singers were an- 
nounced who did not sing, and operas advertised which 
were constantly postponed, the uninitiated public might 
well shake its head with dissatisfaction and forebodings. 
In this troubled crisis of affairs several noblemen 
and gentlemen, who were the most influential among 
the friends and well-wishers of Her Majesty's Theatre, 
convened a meeting of the subscribers to consider the 
best means of aiding the management to carry on its 
affairs to the end of the season. The names which were 
signed to this requisition were of a character to show at 
once the urgency of the appeal, the honourable feeling 
of the intention, and the desire to be of service to one 
whose energy and resolution had already carried him 
through difficulties under which most managers would, 
I really think, have succumbed. 



MKETING OF SUBSCRIBERS. 337 

The main object of the meeting was to preserve, by 
guarantee, the theatre from ruin, and also to maintainr 
the direction of affairs in the hands which had hitherto 
Qonducted them. Every justice was done on this occa- 
sion by all present to my long and zealous exertions, 
and full testimony was rendered, by the oldest habitues^ 
to the distinguished position to which I had raised the: 
theatre. Eesolutions were then passed for the adoption 
of measures which might best effect the object for which 
this notable meeting was convened. They were in sub- 
stance as follows : — 

" I. That, considering the beneficial influence which 
Her Majesty's Theatre has exercised for nearly a 
century in promoting and extending the musical taste 
of the country, it is desirable that measures should 
be taken at this meeting to support Her Majesty's 
Theatre. 

" II. That, considering the energy and perseverance 
which the Director of this establishment has displayed 
in the cultivation of the highest works of art, and in 
providing for the public taste and amusement, during a 
period of extraordinary diiBculty, the meeting will 
support and assist the Director in his efforts to sur- 
mount the difficulties of the establishment. 

" III. That, with the view of establishing an imme- 
diate and available source for the purpose of carrying 
on and conducting this establishment during the present 
season, a fund be raised, to which all friends and well- 
wishers of the theatre be invited to become subscribers, 
and that a committee be appointed for the purpose of 
receiving such subscriptions, and applying the same in 
such a way as they shall deem most conducive to the 
ijiterests of Her .Majesty's Theatre." 

i 



338 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

In accordance with the last resolution, a committee 
was appointed for the purpose of receiving subscriptions' 
in support of the establishment, and of regulating the 
manner in which the sums thus raised should be applied. 
With these decisions the meeting separated. Subscrip- 
tion lists were opened, and liberally filled. But by this 
scheme, although the immediate conduct of the per- 
formances remained, as heretofore, in the hands of the 
Director, it was clear that new and less capable influ- 
ences would soon bear heavily on important arrange* 
ments, on which the prosperity of the theatre must 
necessarily depend. 

When this circumstance is taken into consideration, 
it may reasonably be doubted whether the boon be- 
stowed upon the management was in reality so great as 
on the. face of it might appear. The measures taken 
by the committee formed in pursuance of the resolu- 
tions passed at this meeting, were for the purpose of 
applying the subscriptions raised as a guarantee for the 
payment Of the current salaries of the orchestra, chorus, 
and supernumeraries. No provision Was thus made for 
the security of the salaries of the principal artists. 
These were necessarily left, by this arrangement, to con- 
tinue to give their services and to accept the chances 
of remuneration or loss. Without a free co-operation of 
these artists in the arrangements thus made, it would 
•have been iriipossible to carry on the theatre one single 
night. It may thus be said that a great portion of the 
real and practical management of the establishment had 
passed into the hands of a committee of noblemen and 
gentlemen, aided and supported (or not, as the case 
might be) by the compliance of the principal singers 
and dancers. The opening thus afforded for remon- 



DEBUT OF MADAME LAGRANGE. 339 

strance, complaints, insubordination, interference, or, 
in extreme cases, immediate secession, on the part of the 
salaried employes of the theatre, was as unavoidable as 
it was dangerous. 

In the midst of this turmoil and cqnfusion, Madame 
Lagrange made her first appearance at Her Majesty's 
Theatre in the " Lucia di Lammermoor." The engage- 
ment had been hastily but most judiciously made, when 
one expected prima donna after another seemed to melt 
into impalpable forms. Madame Lagrange had long 
enjoyed a great and well-merited reputation on the 
Continent. The wondrous fluency of her vocalization, 
exercised a great charm upon her audiencei. But it was 
in her lighter characters, in opera huffa, that she com- 
manded her greatest. meed of applause in England, for 
it was in comedy that she was allowed to excel as an 
actress. In the " Prova d'una Opera Seria," her neat- 
ness of execution completely captivated the audience. 
In " Don Pasquale" her success was scarcely less. That 
this singer was a great acquisition to Her Majesty's 
Theatre cannot be questioned, but she came at an un- 
fortunate moment; and, great as were her merits, it 
could scarcely be expected that she would be able to bear 
the whole weight of attraction on her own shoulders or, 
alone and unaided as she was sure to be, to charm away 
the heavy spell of disaster. Outside the theatre were 
distrust and waning popularity; within its walls the 
unfortunate " arrangement" (adopted in view of the 
salvation of the establishment) was bearing its inevi- 
table fruits in disaffection and unsteadiness of purpose 
$,mong the "principals," only serving to plunge the 
direction into difiiculties " deeper and deeper still." 

It is afflicting to read, in the official notices of Hep 

z2 



340 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA, 

Majesty's Theatre at this period, such* records as the; 
following :— 

" Mademoiselle Cruvelli, Mademoiselle D'Angri, and 
Mr. Balfe absented themselves. The performance of the^ 
opera of ' Ernahi,' with the last act of ' La Ceneren- 
tola,' was consequently postponed, and 'Lucia' sub- 
stituted." 

" Mademoiselle Forli refused to dance, althoughr 
advertised to appear." 

" Signor Gardoni refused to sing at seven o'clock. 
Mr. Allcroft apologized to the audience for the substitu- 
tion of Bettini, Mr. Harris not being at his post." 

" ' Lucrezia' postponed ; Madame Fiorentini refused 
to appear. ' Don Pasquale' substituted." 

And so forth, usque ad nauseam. 

Mademoiselle Forli, named above, appeared for one 
night in " La Sylphide," and, like a sylph, vanished.r 
Her place was supplied by Mademoiselle Fleury, a clever 
artist ; but, although admired and applauded, Mademoi* 
selle Fleury had advanced in her art from noviciate ta 
proficiency too much under the eyes of London, and on 
the English boards, to be accepted as a " star." Made^ 
moiselle Rosati, who came late in the season accom- 
panied by Monsieur Durand, an accomplished dancer 
and pantomimist, was received back with enthusiasm. 
Some little prestige was once more gained to the ballet 
by the return of Rosati; but, whatever its influence, it 
could not replace the tottering fortunes of the theatre 
upon a solid basis. 

About this time, also, a strange rumour fell on the 
public ear— Mademoiselle Sophie Cruvelli was gone I 
She had fled abruptly, and without any previous 
warning! This lady was considei*ed the, chief remaining 



FLIGHT OF CRUVELLI. 341 

■stay of the theatre, as prima donna. She alone appeared 
to retain some power of attraction to the spell-bound and 
declining establishment. Several parts had been allotted 
to her in which her popularity might find occasion to 
prove itself to advantage. In which of these was she 
about to appear? The doubt was soon set at rest, and 
the knot of uncertainty cut at once by the wayward and 
impulsive young lady herself. On the very day when, 
in the evening, she was announced to sing the " Lucre- 
zia Borgia," the opera selected for the debut of the 
barytone Signor De Bassini (an acquisition of fair 
promise to the theatre), it transpired that she had set 
sail for the Continent, . and had flown back to her 
German home. No reason, no word of explanation, no 
excuse, was afforded by the fugitive herself. It could 
only be surmised that, with the strange impulsive- 
ness which was one great characteristic of this erratic 
genius — and which, much as it stood her in good stead 
in vigour of acting and of style, was, but aJweat guide 
in the practicjal affairs of life; — she had suddenly yielded 
to the sensa'tion of wearines's and' disgust which assailed 
her under the uncertainties and difficulties .of the season;, 
and had "flung it' to the winds" by precipitate flight. 
Whatever the reason, there could be but little excuse for 
so flagrant a breach of faith and courtesy. But, at all 
events, Cruvelli had disappeared; and the subscribers 
of Her Majesty's Theatre were deprived of their most 
distinguished favourite of the season. 

The unexpected event of Mademoiselle Cruvelli's 
disappearance compelled me to bring forward the new 
barytone in the Figaro of the " Barbiere," with Madame 
De Lagrange, whereas he ought to have appeared in 
one of those powerful tragic parts upon which his great 



342 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEEA. 

reputation was materially founded. This circumstance 
was both unfortunate for Signor De Bassini himself and 
prejudicial to the theatre. As Figaro the impression he 
made proved very small. It was only afterwards, when 
he appeared as De Chevreux in " Maria di Kohan," 
that he " won his spurs" on the scenic arena of Her 
Majesty's Theatre, establishing his right to be con- 
sidered a singer and actor of high pretensions. But 
first impressions are fatal enemies, as they are often 
found to be stout allies. Although entitled to a far 
greater reputation than most of his predecessors in the 
same branch of his art, Signor De Bassini scarcely re- 
ceived his due meed of honour. He remained, however, 
to render most valuable aid in maintaining the fight to 
the last, when Beletti had quietly, and without any 
public eclat, slid away out of the turmoil of disaster. 

The same, too, may be said of Signor Bettini, a 
tenor, who appeared about the middle of June as 
Ernani. He had already been known in England, and 
was considered, as a tenore di forza, to have a certain 
merit; but deficient both in sweetness of voice and 
smoothness of style, he was never a favourite with the 
London public. Still, his energy exercised a certain 
sway over his audience; and this singer also, when 
Gardoni likewise seceded in dissatisfaction and retired, 
weary of further struggle in the lists, did good service 
to the management by fighting side by side with Calzolari 
to the last.* 

Thus, likewise, Madame De Lagrange, as has been 

* This singer must be distinguished from another of the same name, 
a tenor of sweet voice and pure style, but with small power, who sang 
in later seasons (1862-63) at Her Majesty's Theatre, and who is the 
husband of that very favpurite contralto, Mademoiselle Trebelli. 



HOPES OF SONTAG. 343 

already intimated, remained for some time "alone in 
her glory," the principal support as prima donna of the 
tottering establishment. It must not be supposed, how- 
ever, that I ceased in my laborious exertions to lure 
over every available talent to Her Majesty's Theatre, in 
order to supply, as far as was possible, the places of the 
stars which had " set." 

Hopes were entertained, almost to the closing of the 
doors for the season, of the reappearance of Madame 
Sontag. She was still looked to as the Deus ex 
machind, who might appear at the last to change the 
apparently fatal denouement of the drama of manage- 
ment. It has been stated, in a censorious spirit, that 
her name occasionally appeared " underlined" upon the 
official announcements of the theatre as likely to appear. 
Now, Madame Sontag, during the summer, was residing 
with her family in Germany with the view of recruiting 
her impaired strength by a course of waters at Ems. Ill 
health was her sole reason for not resuming her proud 
position at Her Majesty's Theatre. Deserted by 
Mademoiselle Wagner, I had once more made a powerful 
appeal to the great star of previous seasons. Every day 
I hoped that, her health re-established, and the only 
impediment to her reappearance removed, Madame 
Sontag would be able to come over to London. Early 
in July I once more received glad tidings, A letter, from 
the Countess Eossi to a distinguished correspondent, 
had contained a passage to the effect that " if the 
theatre were to be kept open to the usual period in 
August, she did not hesitate to authorize him (Mr. 
Lumley) to announce her for the end of July." Strong 
in this authorization, I was only too happy to announce 
the great singer's reappearance. " I trust now," I 



344 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPEEA. 

wrote to Count Rossi, " that no conceivable impediment 
will arise. The consequences, particularly after the 
announcement, would be disastrous." In the same 
letter I wrote to thank " the Countess for her kind and 
gracious proposal." Nevertheless, the confidence thus 
raised was destined to be cruelly shattered. Letters came 
from Count Rossi, repudiating the sense attached to the 
communication made by his wife (which he said had been 
misunderstood), and deprecating the public announce- 
ment in the daily prints. It was urged in reply, that 
in her letter the Countess had said, " Vous pouvez 
m'annoncer ;" but whatever might be the true sense of the 
original words of Madame Sontag, one phrase sufficed 
to destroy all my hopes : " QuoiqvUl en soit,'" wrote 
Count Rossi, in conclusion, ^'^ Madame Sontag est, contre 
son attente, si epuisee par les eaux, qu'il ne lui est point 
possible de paraitre dans un opera." To such a reason, 
thus advanced, no reply could be given. The direction 
of the theatre had to succumb beneath this added 
disappointment, and the audiences of Her Majesty's 
Theatre were destined never more to be enraptured by 
the delightful talent of this exquisite singer. 

Madame Sontag was shortly afterwards taken over 
by Count Rossi, upon an artistic expedition, to the 
United States, where her success was very great, 
enabling her to amass a considerable fortune. She 
succumbed, however, to the climate of Mexico, whither 
she had been induced to proceed in 1853, and died of 
inflammation of the lungs after a very few hours' illness. 
Except on the death of Madame Malibran, never was 
artist so deeply and so loudly regretted in England as 
this most estimable lady* Her career in London and 
Paris (where she appeared as a marvel after her long 



EEAPPEARANCE OF FAVANTI. 345 

retirement) was triumphant. But, great, as was her 
individual success, the fortunes of Her Majesty's 
Theatre were not much advanced by it. The various 
sums expended on her and her travelling expeditions 
Avere enormous, her own share of remuneration amounting 
to a total exceeding 20,000/. 

An efiFort was made to ameliorate the state of affairs 
by the production of a new hallet for the popular Eosati ; 
and " Zelie, ou I'Amour et la Magie" was " mounted," 
with considerable scenic display and magnificence of 
costume and decoration. Eosati exercised all her fasci- 
nations of " twinkling feet," graceful pantomime, and 
personal charm in this divertissement — ^for hallet d'action, 
with its scanty and yet confused plot, it could scarcely 
be called — and, in conjunction with the splendours of 
the " scenery and appointments," elicited the usual 
amount of exuberant applause from the habitues of the 
theatre. But still " Zelie," with all its brilliancy of 
illustrative art, in every form, can scarcely be said to 
have sensibly arrested the falling fortunes of the 
establishment. 

Madame De Lagrange worked hard, and in some 
degree effectively, to maintaiii the popularity of the 
theatre, performing in a variety of favourite operas. 
But it was impossible for Madame De Lagrange, 
as has been already intimated, to sustain so great 
a burthen unassisted. Other resources had to be 
sought, and, under the pressure of some of my patrons, 
Mademoiselle Favanti was brought forward. This 
young lady (whose real name was Edwards), had made 
her debut on the same boards, it will be remembered, as 
far back as the year 1 844, but had failed in establishing 
that position which her friends and admirers asserted 



346 KEMINISCENCKS OF THE OPERA. 

•was her due. She appeared once more in her original 
trial-part of " La Cenerentola,'" but without creating 
any more favourable sensation among the great majority 
of her hearers. That this lady was endowed with a 
voice of extensive compass and considerable volume is 
unquestionable ; but the defects attending her first essay 
were still present to mar her efforts — a great uncertainty 
of intonation, a want of refinement in those executive 
passages which she was able to master, and an ill- 
directed energy shown in attempting audacious tours de 
force which she had not the ability to carry out. 

Other resources were still to be sought, and were 
found at last in the person of Madame Charton. 

This lady, already advantageously known in England, 
and celebrated in Paris as the original heroine of some 
of Auber!s most charming operas, was a decided acqui- 
sition under the circumstances. Without any great 
degree of power either in voice or style of acting, she 
gilded all she sang with so bright a halo of ease, finish, 
and consummate grace, that she could not fail to be at 
once accepted as an accomplished artist. The r$le de 
debut was one of the most hazardous that could be at- 
tempted on the boards she trod. That in Her Majesty's 
Theatre she should appear as Amina in " La Sonnam- 
bula" to confront the memory of this or that beloved 
Amina of that place, was in itself a trying venture. 
By her exquisite execution, and her valuable experience 
as an actress of the superior French school, she tri- 
umphed, not only over her own want of power, but over 
all reminiscences and rivalry. Her success was decidedly 
great. It was generally understood, however, that it 
was for one especial purpose that this artist had been 
engaged, and that, although she had assumed her 



" CASILDA." 34? 

privilege to choose her rdle d'eyitree, it was in a new- 
opera, respecting which rumours had long been current, 
that she was principally to appear. Until this opera, 
which from its very nature was calculated to excite an 
unusual curiosity, was ready for production, a sop was 
thrown to that impatient Cerberus, the public, in the 
shape of another new haUet divertissement, " La Bou- 
quetiere," the composition of Madame Griiy Stephan, in 
which that pleasant danseuse, assisted by Monsieur 
Durand, enlivened many an evening. 

It was natural to expect that some excitement would 
be created respecting " a grand romantic opera" (already 
announced in the prospectus of the season), " the music 
by his Eoyal Highness the Grand Duke of Saxe Coburg 
and Gotha." Not only would a legitimate curiosity be 
aroused to witness the representation of a work com- 
posed by so illustrious an amateur, of whose distinction 
as a musician so much had been already bruited forth 
to the world ; but when it was considered that this 
sovereign-artist was the brother-in-law of England's 
Queen, the brother of the Prince Consort, there could be 
little doubt that the curiosity roused would become double 
in intensity. The work, moreover, was known to have 
been represented (" and with considerable success," the 
popular report added) on several of the best operatic 
stages in Germany, among which were two of the highest 
rank, those of Vienna and Munich. Eeliance, then, 
was fairly to be placed upon the attraction likely to be 
created by a work comprising so many elements of 
interest. 

" Casilda" was performed " for the first time in 
England," on Thursday, the 5th August. It was 
listened .to by a crowded house; it was frequently 



^48 eeminisceHces of the opera. 

applauded. To state that it was condemned would be 
unjust; but the success of the work, such as it was, may 
be fairly pronounced, in polite French phrase, a " succes 
de courtoisie." The best quality predicable of it con.' 
sisted in the carefulness discernible in the whole 
orchestral treatment of the work. The instrumentation 
was skilful, varied, and well contrasted; treated, too, 
with a " tact" deemed worthy the attention of musi- 
cians, and adapted to lead the audience on to listen with 
complacent patience, if not with actual pleasure, to what 
must be tended its generally meagre melodies. Merit 
of the first order had not, perhaps, been expected; much 
originality even may not have been hoped for by the 
many who crowded to Her Majesty's Theatre on this 
occasion. But the want of decided and intelligible form 
in the various vocal pieces, of striking rhythm, and of 
salient character, was severely felt by the audience, in- 
spired though they were by a sentiment of indulgence the 
most forbearing. In the story of the libretto moreover, 
there were no effects which in a dramatic point of view 
could kindle the feelings of the audience when the 
music failed to warm the heart" or excite the |: imagina- 
tion. Nothing was positively objectionable or even 
wearying, but on the other hand nothing was there 
calculated to arouse attention or to command applause. 
Madame Charton, in the principal part of Casilda^ 
Madame De Lagrange in a secondary rdle, Calzolari, and 
De Bassini, all exerted themselves to the utmost to give 
the best efiect to music in which they had little hope of 
shining to advantage. Every support that gorgeous 
scenery, characteristic costumes, and ingenious groupings 
in the ensemble of the.choruses could bestow on the work, 
as attractive accessories, had been lavishly squandered 



END OF 1852. 349 

to do honour to the Grand Ducal opera. But beyond 
one night's excitement, when curiosity had been allayed, 
it was manifest to all accustomed to feel the pulse of 
the public that " Casilda" could not possibly "draw;" 
nor could the treasury reap advantage from its main- 
tenance in the bills, even when there was no other form 
of novelty available and nothing but " stock" operas to 
fall back upon. Nay, more ! it was evident, in short, 
that this last " forlorn hope" of attraction having ended 
its brief career almost with its birth, nothing remained 
but to succumb resignedly to baleful influences whicby 
during the whole season, had shed discouragement and 
trouble upon the theatre, and to close its doors. And 
accordingly, after a few struggling nights (over and 
above the subscription), a performance of " Don 
Giovanni," for the benefit of Mr. Balfe the conductor 
(on which occasion two unsuccessful debutantes were 
permitted to appear), and one " farewell night," of no 
especial brilliancy, the portals of Her Majesty's Theatre 
were closed; and with this painful record terminates the 
dismal history of the season of 1852. 

The countless embarrassments following upon my un- 
fortunate venture in undertaking the direction of the 
Parisian Italian Opera, combined with the unexpected 
impediments thrown in the way of the management of 
Her Majesty's Theatre during the season of 1852, had 
placed me in a position of peculiar uneasiness. Actions 
at law menaced me on all sides, both in London and in 
Paris. No sooner was one threatened danger thrust 
aside than another arose, and anon another! in 
hydra-headed succession. Still my fortitude never 
failed me. 



350 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Schemes for renovating the Prosperity of the Opera — ^An " Associa- 
tion" contemplated, to carry it on as a Joint-stock Company — 
I)i£Sculty of legalizing such an Association — The Earl Dudley — < 
His first Connexion with the Theatre — His Lordship and Sir Balph 
Howard step forward to prevent the Dispersion of the "Proper- 
ties"— ^Indications afforded of Lord Dudley's views : viz., of taking 
fhe Management of the Opera — ITegociations opened with leading 
Artists accordingly — Alarmed by the Conduct of the principal 
Creditors, Lord Dudley renounces the Design — Ketrospect of 
the embarrassing Course of Affairs during previous Year — Into- 
lerable Hardship of the Legal Persecution — ' Efforts made to 
obtain possession of " Her Majesty's Theatre" by Mr. Gye — • 
Mr. Benedict's Views on the Theatre — ^Abandoned on account of 
the Complexity of its Obligations — The Theatre remains Closed 
from 1852 to 1856 — Covent Garden Opera House Burnt down, 
March, 1856 — My Betum to London — Bevival of Her Majesty's 
Theatre — ^I resume the Direction of the Opera — Controlling Autho- 
rity exercised by Lord Dudley, now become the principal Creditor 
of the Establishment — Necessity compels me to part with my 
Lease to my noble Patron — Belnctance mitigated by the Assurances 
of Lord Dudley's Besolution to take no Advantage of his Position 
• — ^Lord Dudley Underlets the Theatre for a Term of Years 
— Harassing Litigation — Final Appeal of the vexatious Eject- 
ment Suit pending in the House of Lords — Anxious Situation 
prior to the Beopening of the Theatre in 1856. 

Whatever efforts may be made to garnish everyday 
life — the life of practical realities and positive cares — - 
with the colours of romance, and to shed over its dulness 



PROJECT OF AN " OPERA ASSOCIATION." 351 

even the faintest halo of poetry, it is utterly impossible 
to sweep it clear of the cobwebs which the ever- 
intruding law spins in every available corner, even in 
its most sacred recesses. The highest and lowest alike 
must submit to its intrusion. Its constant presence may 
be ignored in pleasant times : in days of embarrassment 
and perplexity it rules supreme, with all-absorbing in- 
fluence. Such poetry of feeling as may attach itself to 
art, and artists, consequently, must for a time be 
obscured by its shadows. Legal details, connected with 
the fortunes of Her Majesty's Theatre, thrust themselves 
into such prominence at this period of its history that 
it is impossible to avoid giving them first and full 
attention. 

In the impending crisis of the fortunes of the theatre 
I had, early in the harassing season of 1852, conceived 
the plan of forming an association for the purpose of 
carrying on the afiairs of the opera house — in other 
•words, a joint-stock company to undertake the financial 
and speculative portion of the direction, whilst the 
management remained in the same hands. It was very 
evident that, owing to a series of untoward circumstances 
(and especially to the breakdown of the Paris enter- 
prise), Her Majesty's Theatre was gradually succumbing; 
and the plan was conceived for the purpose of raising a 
sufficient sum, in shares, to clear the theatre from its 
liabilities, pay off the sums originally borrowed upon some 
of the " property" boxes, as they are called, and restore 
the famous " old house," freed from all incumbrances 
and hindrances, to eventual prosperity. In this design 
I was warmly and powerfully assisted by many influential 
noblemen and gentlemen. At that time, however, the 
i' Limited Liability" Bill had not passed, and it was 



^5% REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

discovered that, under the law of partnership as it then^ 
stood, it would be almost impracticable to arrive at any 
definite measures. Hence it was deemed advisable, and 
indeed indispensable, to appeal in the usual form for a 
" Charter," to establish the association without incurring; 
the dangers of unlimited liability. Opinions favourable 
to the project of a Royal Charter were obtained from the 
highest legal authorities, among which was that of Lord 
Lyndhurst ;. and armed with such powerful sanction, I 
pursued my efforts to obtain, in the proper quarters, the 
desired support to the incorporation of the Opera Asso- 
ciation. The project having been bruited abroad, con- 
siderable opposition, to the scheme was displayed in some 
of the papers, known to be in the interests of the rival, 
establishment. A cry of attempt at monopoly was raised, 
as against all the principles of free-trade, in a " free- 
trade" age and country. The logic of the arguments 
advanced on the occasion was not, however, by any 
means apparent. 

During the course of these active exertions (the 
episodes relating to which might fill a volume, could the 
story of the struggle between the two administrations, 
of the Government and of the Opera, be considered worth 
narration in extenso), I had an interview with Mr. 
.Cardwell, then Vice-President of the Board of Trade. 
By this gentleman I was listened to with the most exem-? 
plary. patience, and my arguments apparently met with 
assent. Mr. Cardwell, indeed, reminded me on this 
occasion of the stout Tory gentleman of another genera^ 
tion who, in speaking of the eloquence of Charles Fox, 
remarked, " He certainly has often convinced my judg- 
ment, but, T am proud to. say, he has never influenced 
iny voteJ' The. petitioner was obliged to. depart from 



"opera association." 

the interview without any promise, and eventually the 
Eoyal Chartef was decidedly refused. 

The next course adopted was to obtain an Act of 
Parliament for the incorporation of the company. A 
Bill, to meet the exigencies of the occasion, was accord- 
ingly brought into the House, and it was soon made 
known to the public that " Her Majesty's Theatre 
Association Bill had passed the Standing Orders Com- 
mittee" early in the year 1853. But on the second 
reading, Mr. Cardwell, contrary to expectation (inas- 
much as he was supposed to have sanctioned the appeal to 
Parliament), spoke against the Bill with much energy. 
The Bill was lost, and all hopes of re-establishing the 
fortunes of Her Majesty's Theatre by the proposed 
"Association" fell to the ground. 

Considerable opposition was offered to the Bill on 
account of some informality which had taken place in 
passing it through the " Committee on Standing 
Orders." It had been urged that, if the form were not 
dispensed with, the delay in ^jringing in the Bill would 
prevent the theatre from opening that year (1853). 
It was on the discussion of this point that one honourable 
member declared that the very argument would be a 
conclusive reason for insisting on the "order," inas- 
much as it would be a good thing if all theatres were 
closed ( ! ) 

By the refusal of a Charter, and by the loss of the 
Bill for the incorporation of the Opera Association, all 
the arrangements looked forward to for the opening of 
Her Majesty's Theatre for the season of 1853 were at once 
annulled. Was it possible to commence a fresh cam- 
paign under the pressing difSculties of the moment, or 

A A 



354 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

was it not? Such were the various and harassing 
questions debated. 

In this emergency it was that the Earl of Dudley 
(then Lord Ward), afterwards destined to be so imme- 
diately connected with the fortunes of Her Majesty's 
Theatre, appeared on the scene of the perplexed and 
tangled drama which was being enacted. This nobleman 
had taken a somewhat prominent part in the famous 
committee meeting of the previous season, when he had 
volunteered the pledge that, under no circumstances 
would he desert me or the Opera, and it would seem 
probable that it was at this period that his Lordship 
conceived the idea of becoming himself the Director of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, in actual practical working, 
but under the cover of my name, and with the aid of 
my long experience. It cannot be presumed that it was 
in any spirit of financial speculation that this design 
was conceived by Lord "Ward. But when it is felt how- 
great is the fascination that the management of theatres, 
and especially of an opereftic establishment, exercises 
over many minds, it may well be understood how very 
powerful was the temptation to lay hands on the 
operatic sceptre, which lay ready to the grasp. 

Special circumstances rendered immediate action neces- 
sary. The " properties" of the theatre were announced 
for sale, upon a claim of the ground landlord, who in the 
year 1850 had advanced on this security the sum of 
lOjOOOZ. To prevent the dispersion of these valuable 
theatrical accessories, the original cost of which had 
been valued at 23,000Z., it was arranged that they 
should be purchased, in the names of Lord Ward and 
Sir Ralph Howard (the latter gentleman shortly after 



A GAP OF THREE YEAKS. 355 

resigning his share in this item of property to the 
nobleman), upon security afforded by me. 

Thus it came to pass that, in the early portion of 1853, 
when it was still considered possible to open Her 
Majesty's Theatre for its customary season. Lord Ward 
still adhered to his purpose of carrying on the specu- 
lation as his own. Negociations, under his auspices, 
were conducted with various artists. Madame Viardot, 
Lablache, Gardoni, Massol, and Coletti, were all in- 
cluded in them, the artists having been respectively 
"sounded," nay, partially engaged. Directions were 
given that the theatre should be held ready to open at a 
moment's notice. But in consequence of some diflS- 
culties interposed by the principal creditors. Lord Ward 
suddenly abandoned his project, and threw up all the 
arrangements, although these were far advanced. 

The die, then, was cast, and Her Majesty's Theatre 
remained with closed doors during the season of 1853, 
being destined by events which followed in fatal suc- 
cession not to open those doors again to the public until 
the year 1856. 

*It may as well be stated at once, that the main cause 
of Her Ma,iesty's Theatre remaining closed during these 
three consecutive seasons arose from the wearisome 
delays attendant upon the fact of an action of ejectment 
having been brought against myself. The action was 
instituted, in the name of the ground landlord, by his 
brother, a barrister, upon the plea that a violation of 
the terms of the lease had been committed by the lessee. 
This pretended " violation" could only be supported by 
a highly-strained interpretation of the law. Neverthe- 
less, the vexatious suit was carried on through years, 

AA 3 



356 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA, 

The legal points were first decided in my favour by the 
Court of Queen's Bench, and again, when the cause was 
carried over to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, 
that judgment was confirmed, though not until the 
month of November, 1855. An appeal was then made 
to the House of Lords, and there at last I was relieved 
of this legal " Old Man of the Sea," who had so long 
clung round my neck, encumbering, stifling, strangling 
me at every turn — an unanimous and final decision 
confirming the previous judgments. 

During all this long period of harassing doubt, ex- 
pense, and anxiety, while the weight of the deadly 
incubus rendered it impossible for me, however impa- 
tient I might feel under inaction, to attempt carrying 
on the affairs of the theatre, I passed my time partially 
in Paris, winding up various obligations resulting from 
the unfortunate campaigns I had undertaken in the 
field of Italian Opera. 

It must not be supposed, however, that during all 
this long period the interests of Her Majesty's Theatre 
were allowed to remain altogether in abeyance. Efforts 
were made, though without effect, to obtain possession of 
Her Majesty's Theatre on the part of the lessee of Covent 
Garden. At one time (early in the spring of 1854) a 
strong idea was entertained by Mr. Benedict, the cele- 
brated composer, of taking the theatre under his own 
direction, and on this subject he and I had several inter- 
views. He was a popular man, supported by many 
influential personages in his project, and the occasion 
seemed promising. But he seems to have recoiled be- 
fore the overwhelming difficulties and heavy responsi- 
bilities of the undertaking ; for, after a few months of 



MR. E. T. SMITH. 357 

fruitless negociations,he eventually abandoned the design. 
And that he acted wisely I most emphatically declare. 
A professional musician is out of place in the position of 
a director. He is too apt to be guided by professional 
prejudices. I do not believe there is a single instance 
of a professional man having been successful in an 
operatic enterprise, while there are many examples of 
the contrary, such as those of Catalani at Paris, Lablache 
in Sicily, and Persiani at Covent Garden. It is scarcely 
possible for a composer not to fail in the practical 
management of individuals. He would be constantly 
led in the wrong direction by professional prepossessions 
or aversions. 

Another aspirant for the honours of the direction 
also appeared, during the same year, in the person of 
Mr. E. T. Smith, best known in the theatrical world by 
his- long lesseeship of Drury Lane Theatre. But after 
many interviews and calculations it became evident 
that the ambitious hopes of this enterprising speculator 
could not be realized, at least for the present. 

In after years, when my connexion with Her Ma- 
jesty's Theatre was entirely broken, Mr. E. T. Smith 
became for a short period the Director of the establish- 
ment. But his boldness did not command success on 
this occasion, and the failure of the enterprise led to 
his receding from the lesseeship of Drury Lane also. 

To enter into minute details of all the fluctuating 
circumstances and the legal complications which swayed 
my fortunes, and through me those of Her Majesty's 
Theatre, during these three years, while the establish- 
ment remained closed to the public, would be impossible. 
Indeed, this period, interesting only to those who can 



358 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

find pleasure in tracing the shiftings and windings of 
the law, must be passed over, and the history of my 
management accordingly recommences in the early 
spring of the year 1856. 

On the 4th of March, 1856, 1 found myself in Paris, 
arranging multifarious matters of business, in that 
capital. My intention had been to stay for some time 
longer, and I had even made many engagements for 
the ensuing week. But on that day I felt unaccount- 
ably restless and uneasy. An uncontrollable impulse 
seemed to urge me to return to London. I reasoned 
with myself upon the fallacy of such " presentiments," 
but my self-created arguments against yielding to the 
impulse which tormented me proved insufficient to 
check a sudden resolve to return to England. I 
packed up nay " personals" hastily, and started for 
London by the evening mail. On the morning of the 
6th of March I arrived in town. I proceeded at once 
direct from the railway to the office of one of my legal 
agents (situate near to London Bridge), and was there 
startled by the announcement made by one of the clerks, 
that Covent Garden Theatre had been burned down 
during the night !* 

Hurrying to my friends, I learned that telegraphic 
despatches had been sent off to me at Paris from a 
dozen quarters. Curious that a strange "presenti- 
ment" should have already brought me back ! On all 

* This catastrophe, it will be remembered, took place at the conclusion 
6f a masked ball, given by the " Wizard Anderson." The fire burst 
Out even before the company had left the house, and hundreds of 
" masks" escaped from the rapidly invading fire^ rushing with terror 
and shrieks into the streets; 



FIRE AT COVENT GARDEN. 359 

sides I found my friends in a state of the utmost agita- 
tion and excitement. The destruction of the rival 
establishment had changed, as if by the wave of a magic 
wand, the whole aspect of my affairs. All crowded 
around me with offers of assistance, in order to enable 
me to commence at once active measures for the re- 
opening of Her Majesty's Theatre. Kelieved from the 
fatal rivalry which had ultimately obtained the mas- 
tery, after having for years divided the operatic world, 
Her Majesty's Theatre might again, it was felt, look 
forward to a career of prosperity. At all events, the 
establishment could sail forth upon a new venture with 
far less chance of those sources of disaster which arose in 
the one formidable quarter. By this one event diffi- 
culties appeared to have shrunk into nothing. What 
in men's eyes had been mountains now appeared mole- 
hills. A " friendly hand" came forward to smooth the 
way before the new enterprise. Interview followed in- 
terview with all the patrons and supporters of Her 
Majesty's Theatre, and it was powerfully urged that 
every possible- step should be taken for the immediate 
opening of the establishment. 

But although there was much appearance of hope irl 
the future, and although I again saw the sceptre of 
management brought within my reach, it must not be 
supposed that all difficulties, however they might be 
lightened, were wholly disposed of» Proposals were again 
made for Her Majesty's Theatre by the lessee of the 
unfortunate establishment which was now in ruins. But 
he found me too strong in the field already, and learned 
that, in spite of encumbrances, the obstacles could be 
met by energy, not unaccompanied with confidence in the 



360 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEEA. 

future. After many days of suspense, negociation, oppo- 
sition, every adverse contingency seemed well-nigh 
surmounted; and accordingly, on Wednesday, the 19th 
March, the momentous decision was taken that the 
theatre should open for the season of 1856 ! 

In all the preliminary steps to this important event, 
it must naturally be inferred, from the situation of 
affairs as detailed at the commencement of the chapter, 
that the ruling spirit in all the arrangements, -financial 
and legal, was Lord Ward; and, in order to present 
a clear conception of the true position of the Director 
of Her Majesty's Theatre during ensuing seasons 
down to the close of his management, it will be neces- 
sary once more to refer to the past, and to explain 
through what steps, during the intervening years, the 
framework was prepared of that special and excep- 
tional basis upon which Her Majesty's Theatre now 
rested. 

It was manifest that, although Lord Ward had long 
since abandoned his idea of taking the main practical 
direction of the theatre upon himself, he had neverthe- 
less always maintained the design of bringing its general 
affairs under his own control. To this intent he pur- 
posed to gather into his own hands all the various en- 
cumbrances (chiefly in the form of "judgments") which 
weighed upon the establishment. One after another 
these were bought up by him, until (with one single 
exception, as it would appear) he became the possessor 
of every " charge" of any notable amount to which the 
property was liable. Well aware as I was that it would 
not always be beneficial to an encumbered property that 
every claim should lie in the power of one individual. 



AREANGEMENT WITH LORD WARD. 361 

still, placing reliance on the noble patron, and disposed 
to look upon him as a friend to art, chiefly for its own 
sake, I did all in my power to forward Lord Ward's 
views, insomuch that at the period when all arrange- 
ments were ripe for the re-opening of the theatre 
for the season of 1856, Lord Ward had acquired a 
far larger interest in the theatre than the proprietor 
himself. 

It was natural enough, under the circumstances, that 
the nobleman, however wealthy, who had advanced 
moneys so considerable in amount upon the property, 
should desire to be placed in a more secure position than 
that of a mere judgment creditor ; and Lord Ward accord- 
ingly pressed for an absolute assignment of the property 
to himself, with the understanding that this transaction 
should be considered in the light of a mortgage. However 
anxious I felt to please the man whose aid to the theatre 
had been so valuable and effective, I felt reluctant to 
part, even in seeming, with my remaining interest in 
the house — an interest still of such value that Lord 
Ward himself had offered 10,000^. for its acquisition. 
I was, in truth, unwilling to deprive myself of the 
chances of developing my property for my own ultimate 
benefit. A compromise was therefore effected, which 
seemed to afford security to the noble creditor, and yet 
leave opportunities to the Director to re-establish his 
shaken fortunes. It was ultimately agreed that the 
lease of the theatre should be assigned to the nobleman, 
on the understanding that I should be allowed to re- 
purchase it whenever it was in my power to do so, and 
that an under-lease should be granted me, at a rent 
sufficient to cover the interest on the encumbrances, and 



362 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

provide at the same time a sinking fund, wherewith to 
pay off the principal of my debts at the expiration of 
my lease. 

That I hesitated to alienate a property, upon which 
my whole future fortune depended, is easy to conceive. 
Still, although I knew I was placing myself wholly in 
the power of my all-powerful creditor (should my success 
not prove such as to enable me to pay off these heavy 
burdens), I relied upon the reputation of Lord Ward, 
as an amateur and patron of art, and a friend of Her 
Majesty's Theatre, as affording a security against any 
dangerous consequences. Any lingering doubts I might 
have felt, moreover, were gradually dispersed by the 
frank assurances and even written pledges of his lord- 
ship.* Thus, although fully aware that I was granting 
my noble creditor unlimited power over my destiny, I 
finally assented to Lord Ward's proposal, without even 
making an attempt to stipulate for any pecuniary con- 
sideration in return for the surrender of a property 
for which Lord Ward himself had shortly before been 
anxious to give a large sum. 

Legal arrangements were consequently entered into 
on my part to give due effect to Lord Ward's proposal. 
All my interest in the lease was assigned over, abso- 
lutely, to the nobleman. An under-lease of the theatre 
was granted to me for a period of four years and three- 



* In a letter, dated 17th. March, 1856, Lord Ward repeats to me — 
" I think you may safely put yourself unreseniedhj into my hands as 
friendly ones." In the same letter he writes that, even in case I should 
be unable to pay off the existing claims against the estate in the stipulated 
time, and it should be necessary to deal with them absolutely] " I will 
not exact my 'pound of flesh j' but Will deal liberally with your- 
self." 



THE THEATRE EE-OPENS. 363 

quarters, at a stipulated rent ;* which included also the 
use of the properties previously purchased conjointly 
by his lordship and Sir Ealph Howard; and a deed of 
covenant was entered into by Lord Ward, by which he 
bound himself not to sell the theatre or properties before 
Christmas, 1860 ; leaving to me the option to re-purchase 
the theatre at the price of 38,820^., the sum calculated 
as the actual amount of my creditors' securities at the 
period specified. 

The deeds were executed, and my fate was decided. 
For the present, at least, a load was taken from 
my mind, whatever may have been my misgivings 
respecting a dark and hazardous future. These " mis- 
givings" were, unfortunately, not confined at that time 
to the result of my transactions with Lord Ward, or 
even to my chances for good or for evil of the revived 
operatic speculation. At this very juncture, the litiga- 
tion at the suit of the superior landlord, with the view 
of obtaining a forfeiture, was pending. The decisions 
hitherto given had been entirely in my favour, as has 
been already stated; but in the commencement of 1856 
the dangers incident to the Appeal to the House of 
Lords still menaced me. 

Such was the footing upon which the fortunes of the 
establishment rested when Her Majesty's Theatre at 
last re-opened its doors for the season of 1 856. Such 

* The amount of tlie rent was fixed at 3344Z. 14*. for the first year, and 
6275Z. per annum for the rest of the term. These sums were calculated 
^as the interest payable to Lord Ward in respectof his advances (including 
the price of the "properties" purchased, to which was to be joined a 
sum of 2400^., supposed to represent the amount of the annual sinking 
fund, to be applied to paying off the principal at the end of the term of 
the lease). By an error of calculation, this sum of 24002. had been 
put considerably too high, as was admitted in subsequent discussions. 



364 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

were the auspices under which the renaissance took 
place; such the doubts, the difficulties, the hazards, 
which lay before the Director, like rocks in the channel 
way of a ship — some clear above the surface, others 
sunken and hidden beneath the waters. The pilot of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, however, had confidence in his 
"good stout ancient bark;" and looked forward with 
trust to steer her steadily into the haven of safety, 
possibly into that of success. 



365 



CHAPTER XXin. 

Hasty Preparations for Ue-opening Her Majesty's Theatre — Mdlle. 
Johanna Wagner engaged again — Surprise consequent upon this 
Announcement — Effective Character of the new " Company" — 
The Director's " Address" issued to the Subscribers and the Public 
— The Opening Night in May described — General Satisfaction 
of the Patrons of the Opera with the Eene wed Activity of the 
Management — Mournful Absence of Lablache, struck by Mortal 
Sickness — Alboni's Return — Debut of Mdlle. Piccolomini — Her 
Eemarkable Position on the Stage — Her Great Success — Marie 
Taglioni, MM. Charles and Vauders in Ballet — Debut of Mdlle. 
Wagner in "Eomeo" — Her Merits, what? — Successful Course 
of Affairs — ^Durable Attraction of Piccolomini — Anecdotes of 
Lablache. 

The spring of the year 1856 was already advanced, and 
but scanty was the time for preparation. With the hopes 
of a brighter future before me, my energy and activity 
were fully employed. Taking Paris principally as my 
head-quarters, I cast out my nets on every side to catch 
the largest operatic fish which might be afloat in thea- 
trical waters. It was necessary, doubtless, to gild the 
baits expensively in order to capture the best ; but hasty 
as were the whole proceedings, the "haul" was an un- 
usually fine one, and, considering the circumstances, most 
extraordinary. 

So much had been said lately about a flying fish of the 
most brilliant colours, that had been disporting itself, "to 
the delight of all beholders," in Italian latitudes, that 



366 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the most tempting lures were thrown out in this especial 
direction. It was a bold venture; for I had learned 
by experience that the most gorgeous southern hues do 
not always look so bright when divested of the rainbow 
tints of Italian imagination and exposed to the rays of 
our British light. It was a bold venture — but the fish- 
erman persevered. The coy fish looked at the bait, 
turned tail, and swam away. The bait was changed to 
one more attractive : the fish returned, sported around 
it, nibbled, swallowed it; and Marietta Piccolomini was 
" hooked" at last for Her Majesty's Theatre! 

A surprise, moreover, awaited the subscribers and the 
public — a great surprise, at all events, to those who knew 
nothing of the proverbial unsteadiness and changeable- 
ness of theatrical curiosities.* Rumour began to assert 
that I was in treaty with my former slippery " subject," 
Mademoiselle Johanna Wagner. Outsiders shook their 

* A still greater surprise lay among th.e possibilities of the season, 
althougli it never came before the public. Before it was known that 
the Lyceum was to be opened for Italian Opera by the late manage- 
ment of the unfortunate Coveut Garden, I had addressed Signor Costa 
with proposals to become my conductor. 

"I know your attachment to the old house," I wrote. "Her 
Majesty's Theatre is about to re-open. Such an occasion — the com- 
mencement of a new era in its history — might be considered by yourself, 
as it would be by all, most propitious for rejoining a theatre wherein 
your great reputation was acquired. To me it would be gratifying to 
see you resume your old post. Judging of your feelings by my own, 
I am sure that anything which a moment's misintelligence rendered 
unpleasant in the past, will be entirely forgotten.'' 

To this proposal Mr. Costa replied as follows : — 

" My dear Sir, — ^I am happy to see you have found [Query, where 
does this appear P] that I was the straightforward and the best friend 
of your interests and of Her Majesty's Theatre. At present Mr. Gye 
has my word ; and you well know my word is a bond. If anything 
should happen in future, I will be glad to treat with you." 

And thus terminated this singular little episode in operatic annals, 



ENGAGEMENT OF WAGNER. 367 

heads doubtfully. "Impossible! It could not be!" 
Eumour, however, was right for once. 

Indirect assurances had been given to me that 
Mademoiselle Wagner was anxious to come to terms, 
and appear at Her Majesty's Theatre, provided she 
could be released from the penalties of the infraction of 
her engagement on the previous occasion. On the basis 
of these assurances I resolved to make overtures of 
"peace and goodwill" to my former deserter. There 
was no time for long negociations. Principally through 
the mediation of Paul Taglioni, then professionally en- 
gaged at Berlin, and by telegraphic dispatches, the affair 
was brought to a conclusion. Some doubt still lingered 
in the lady's mind, arising not from any suspicion of the 
entire sincerity of my offers of reconciliation and engage- 
ment, but, as it afterwards appeared, from her own fears 
as to the disposition of a British public towards her, 
after the insolent (but oft-repented) letter of her father, 
with the ignorant phrase, " England is only to be 
valued for her gold." The risk, however, was worth 
encountering, and Mademoiselle Wagner's engagement 
at Her Majesty's Theatre for the season of 1856 was 
concluded.* 

From my Parisian head-quarters I spread out my 
feelers on all sides, and collected a good company around 

* In her correBpondence she made constant reference to the wretched 
affair of 1852. " Croyez moi,je ieraifidMe a ma parole et a vousj'usqu'au 
dernier moment;" and .again, "J'espere qu'il" (the new contract) 
" effiifera avee ses consequences tout le passSpour toujours. Quant a 
moi, jeferai mon possible pour ohtenir ce resultat; et quant a vous, je 
suis persuadee, que vous ferez tout pour me soutenir, et me f aire aimer 
votre belle Angleterre." The last words again reveal her doubts as to 
her reception. The lady was very anxious to sing the " OrpMe" of 
Crliick, " Mon plus beau r6le," she saya ; " mon plus grand succis." 



368 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

me with much expedition. Early in March all had 
been dark as chaos. In a few short weeks an admi- 
rably combined troop was formed, perfect in all its 
several members. Ballet, with its hundred accessories, 
besides Opera, was to be provided for. Eosati, then 
dancing in Paris at the Academic Imperiiah, was not 
only ready to return to London as soon as she was able, 
but was an excellent adjunct. "Je suis toujour s la 
mhfie" she smilingly responded to the resuscitated ma- 
nager's first application. Gosselin, the clever mime 
and maitre de danse, undertook the further organization 
of the choreographic department. Beletti was hunted 
up, and found willing to return to his old post. An 
important negociation with Baucarde and his wife, 
Madame Albertini, who was then enjoying an immense 
reputation in Italy, especially in Florence, and was 
strongly recommended on all sides, was concluded to 
mutual satisfaction. My life in Paris at this period 
was one of incessant toil and constant " wear and 
tear" of mind. In the strain upon my bodily and 
mental resources I was supported by hope as well 
as a native energy, and I happily came unscathed 
out of all my difficulties; returning to England 
with my arrangements for the opening of Her 
Majesty's Theatre so far completed in all essen- 
tial points as to warrant the sending forth my pro- 
spectus for the season, not without just confidence and 
pride. 

The " Address to the Public," which had been cor- 
rected and emended by Lord Ward, was simple and to 
the purpose, and was hailed with the greatest favour on 
all sides. The arrangements " already completed" were 
considered admirable. More were promised. " In con- 



THE "renaissance" OF 1856. 369 

sequence of the late period at which it was resolved to 
open the theatre," said the address, " the arrangements, 
satisfactory as it is hoped they will even now be found, 
are not fully completed ; and negociations are in progress 
from which important accessions are expected." But 
these hopes for the future were scarcely needed in a pro- 
spectus which comprised Mademoiselle Piccolomini, 
Madame Alboni, Mademoiselle Johanna Wagner, and 
Madame Albertini, together with a host of other minor 
stars, including Salviani, a new tenor of repute, with 
Baucard^, Calzolari, Beneventano (a baritone of fair 
quality), and Zucconi, a hasso huffo, with the staunch 
old favourite, Beletti. To these were added, in the 
ballet department, one of the most admired " etoiles de 
la danse," Eosati, surrounded by a host of bewitching 
satellites; and another star, who bade fair to attain a 
high place in the favour of the public, viz., Marie 
Taglioni. Under the auspicious promise of this combi- 
nation (a marvellous one when the brief time for prepa- 
ration, and the hurriedness of the arrangements are con- 
sidered), Her Majesty's Theatre once more prepared to 
open its doors. The bass voices, which had hitherto 
constituted one of my strongest points, were the 
weakest elements in this combination. Alas! the 
great Lablache, the invaluable old friend and support of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, the colossal artist (as artist), the 
cherished of all opera-goers, was lying sick in mortal 
illness. All that could be done to supply his place had 
been done. Bouchd, an excellent basso from the Aca- 
demie Imperiale, was subsequently added. 

When this important opening at last took place on 
Saturday the 10th May, the enthusiasm surpassed ex- 
pectation even in the minds of the most sanguine friends 

B B 



370 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

of the establishment. Public and press seemed both 
resolved to hold a great jubilee on the occasion. Once 
more the old arcades and passages, gloomy and deserted 
for nearly four years, were lighted and thronged with 
crowds in bright attire ; once more the brilliant decora- 
tions of the interior blazed forth in all their splendour ; 
once more the high-born and elegant members of society 
assembled within those familiar walls; once more 
boxes, stalls, and pit were enlivened by the various 
colours of dresses and gay "toilettes" and floral 
wreaths. Old frequenters of the theatre — many who 
believed in no other opera, and ignored the innovation 
of rivalry — enjoyed cheerful meetings and greetings in 
the old "rendezvous" of fashion. Men there were who, 
radiant with pleasure at finding themselves in the " old 
house" once more, could scarcely refrain from shaking 
hands in congratulation with unknown neighbours. 
Even the partisans of the " other house" came 
there to indulge their curiosity. Had the whole 
theatre been sprinkled with waters drawn from the 
" Fontaine de Jouvence ?" The old subscribers must 
have felt something like the sultan of the eastern tale, 
who, on plunging his head into a bucket of water lived 
through long years ; and yet, on withdrawing it, learned 
that he had only passed one second. Amid the general 
complacency none seemed inclined to ask, " What has 
been done with those three years of operatic life of which 
we have been robbed?" Friends and patrons of 
the theatre liad "come to their own again." Her 
Majesty's Theatre awakened to an animated resur- 
rection. It was characterized by all the life and 
stir of olden times — it re-echoed with its wonted 
sounds. The chief authority, too, who had ruled its 



ALBONI IN " CENERENTOLA." 371 

destinies through long years was still there — no ghost 
of the past, but the same living man, active, enterprising, 
unquenched in- spirit and in zeal, as of yore. The even- 
ing of the resuscitation could not even pass over without 
a bestowal of public congratulation on the old friend 
who had struggled with so many difficulties, had 
suffered in the fire of misfortune, and now rose like a 
Phoenix from his ashes. I was compelled to appear be- 
fore the crowded audience, and to accept a burst of enthu- 
siasm to cheer me on the threshold of my new venture.* 
The services of Madame Alboni (" her first appear- 
ance for five years") had been secured for the opening of 
the theatre ; and the opera given was " La Cenerentola." 
No part was probably better suited to this wonderful 
singer's resources ; and her reappearance was hailed with 
the most fervent acclamations. Her voice may have 
already lost something of that remarkable " velvety " 
quality which had belonged to it in former days — less 
through the " wear and tear" of time, however, than 
through its having been exercised in latter years in 
singing soprano parts, whilst its original quality was a 
pure contralto. But there she stood again, the true ex- 
ponent of that school of broad, graceful " Cantilena," 
united with easy fluency — that school of brilliant and 
unerring execution, the " Kossinian school" (as the 
phrase went then) which had earned for her the fame she 
deservedly enjoyed. There she stood again to warble 
those extraordinary tours deforce, to which her seeming 

* If there was any slight feeling of dissatisfaction to mar the general 
joy of the occasion, it arose from the arrangement which had deprived 
Mr. Balfe of his old h&ton of command as conductor. It is but fair, 
however, to Signor Bonetti, who supplied his place, to state that on 
this jubilee occasion he was received — as indeed everybody was — with 
applause. 

pb2 



372 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

unconsciousness of difficulty added so indefinable a charm. 
There she stood again, the Queen of the Night, on an 
evening so important, and so remarkable in the history 
of Her Majesty's Theatre. Calzolari, another so-called 
" Rossinian" singer, steady as well as accomplished, and 
an excellent tenor of agilita, though not di forza, was 
also warmly welcomed back to his old arena of favour.* 
Beletti, the favourite baritone of former days, was to 
have been the Z>anc?m of the occasion ; but indisposition 
prevented him from sharing in the glories of that night. 
Beneventano was obliged to supply his place " at the 
briefest notice." It was unfortunate for this singer that he 
should have been forced by circumstances to appear for 
the first time on the Anglo-Italian stage in a part for 
which he was unsuited. His strength, such as it was, 
lay wholly in opera seria. But, in doing his best, he pre- 
served the ensemble of the opera, in a musical point of 
view, and met with the due appreciation of a self-sacrifice 
rarely submitted to by the susceptible tribe of artists. 

In one respect the opera of " La Cenerentola," well 
suited as it was in other ways, could not but awaken a 
feeling of sadness which ever and anon mingled with 
the predominant sentiments of joy. The Don Magnijico^ 
whom all had known and greeted as a friend, and loved 
for many long, long years, was there no longer. Eecol- 
lections of the bursts of laughter which hailed every 

* The presence of mind, as well as imperturbable steadiness of this 
excellent tenor (never perhaps so much appreciated as his merit 
deserved) -vras evidenced on this occasion. When he was to appear in 
the court-garb of the Prince, a considerable delay toot place. On 
entering he was received with a few tokens of disapprobation ; so on 
commencing his recitative, instead of delivering the words set down 
he quietly sang — "/ miei costumi non eran' pronii ;" and the sibilla- 
tions immediately changed to laughter and applause. 



REGRET FOR LABLACHE. 373 

genial sally of the great hiiffo, so familiar to that stage, 
fell upon many a heart with a sort of chill. The 
" Segreto dHmjJortanza" so often awaited in old days, 
when men garnered up their joyousness for a hearty 
explosion in that scene, wonderful for comic force of 
acting as well as singing, was rather dreaded as a painful 
reviver of bygone memories. Where was the dear old 
Don Magnijico, with his importance, his pomposity, 
his overstrained ambition, and his consternation and 
despair at the downfal of his hopes? "Sick unto 
death." Where was the thunder of that mighty voice 
which had so often pealed through that area as musician- 
like in truth and skill, as instinct with power? Silent! 
Lablache was to sing no more ! 

It was a hard and thankless task for poor Signor 
Zucconi,on his first appearance, to encounter recollections 
such as these. Children cannot be made to receive a 
stepfather in lieu of him whom they have loved and lost, 
even should the substitute be the worthiest of men. Poor 
Signor Zucconi ! With a voice of no great compass, he 
laboured hard to move his audience by an exuberance 
of grotesque humour, common to the Italian buffo ; but 
his audience could not be induced to laugh. What 
could he do, save fail ? To resume the thread of our 
story. 

Not only in opera, but in t\iQ ]jallet department also, 
the ancient glories of Her Majesty's Theatre were to be 
revived on that memorable evening. A new ballet- 
divertissement was produced on the occasion — one of 
those pieces of choreographic jewellery in which gems of 
dancing are prettily strung together upon the veriest 
thread of a plot, and " set " in a setting of gorgeous 
scenery, according to the fashion of a time which repu- 



374 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

dlated the heavy ornamentation of one of those stirring 
story-ballets which now began to be considered as of 
" the ancient time." " Les Quatre Saisons " worthily 
supported the eclat of the opening night in its own way. 
Strange to say, not one of the former " stars of the 
ballet " was present to shine on this occasion. Two new 
danseuses, whose names had hitherto been unknown to 
the walls of Her Majesty's Theatre, appeared in " quad- 
rilateral" rivalry in this new divertissement, each having 
a different "season" appropriated to herself; — Made- 
moiselle Boschetti, sparkling in rapid movement; 
Mademoiselle Katrine, tall, handsome, with a broad 
sweeping style, perhaps rather cold and stately than grace- 
ful. Between the new aspirants for its favours and its 
bouquets the lovers of the ballet scarcely knew which to 
choose. They were too happy in having once more so 
dainty a banquet of dance spread out before them, to 
venture to be critical as to the respective merits of each 
piquante candidate for their favours. 

Her Majesty's Theatre thus brilliantly launched, with 
colours flying, was now fully embarked upon its short 
but still venturesome voyage. What sunny weather, or 
what squalls was it yet to encounter during the few 
remaining brief months of the season! It sailed on 
pleasantly enough from the first, but without any decided 
augury of the future. In the " Barbiere," Madame 
Alboni attracted her numerous admirers ; — in " La 
Sonnambula " also, although neither the character nor 
compass of the Amina was suited to her peculiar 
resources.* Signor Salviani made his debut as 

* The carpenters were eDJoined to take measures for strengthening 
the bridge over the water- wheel — the fair representative of Amina 
being of somewhat weighty proportions. 



Dii^BUT OF PICCOLOMINI. 375 

Jlmaviva, and without making any such marked sensa- 
tion as would raise him above, or even to the level of, 
the powerful rivals with whom he had to contend else- 
where, proved himself a tenor of sympathetic voice, 
endowed with fine powers as an actor and a prepossessing 
appearance. Another divertissement, "La Manola," 
gave variety to the ballet, aiFording Madame Bellon 
an opportunity for some agreeable and sprightly acting. 
But the important problem of permanent success was 
not completely solved, so far as the season of 1856 was 
concerned, until the appearance of a young Italian lady 
of high lineage on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
Mademoiselle Piccolomini made her curtsey on Saturday, 
the 24th May, in Verdi's opera " La Traviata," since 
become so famous and (it may be said at once, in spite 
of all that may be stated hereafter) so great a favourite, 
but produced for the first time, on that occasion, on 
the Anglo-Italian boards. The enthusiasm she created 
was immense.* It spread like wildfire. Once more 

* It may be fairly said, without detracting from Mdlle. I*iccolomini's 
merits, that a certain portion of the excitement ■which she created on 
her first appearance may be attributed to the romance which signalized 
her operatic career. The descendant of a noble Italian family, which 
had given popes, cardinals, generals, and statesmen to her native country ; 
the child of a race so often illustrated in history ; living in right of 
her name, her title, and her family connexions, in the first Italian 
society of Eome and Prance, she had from her earliest childhood con- 
ceived irresistible longings, augmenting with years, to devote herself 
to the public profession of that art she felt within her, and which seemed 
to point out the course of her destiny. Private life grew more and 
more wearisome, became almost impossible to bear, as these aspirations 
strengthened with her advance to womanhood. So urgent was the 
incessant importunity of little Marietta Piccolomini, that her parents 
were obliged at last to yield a reluctant consent to her appearance on 
the operatic stage. Her youth, her vivacity, her piquanie grace, ensured 
her a favourable reception, even as a novice. Her fame soon increased i 



376 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

frantic crowds struggled in the lobbies of the Theatre, 
once more dresses were torn and hats crushed in the 
conflict. Once more a mania possessed the public. 
Marietta Piccolomini became " the rage." From the 
moment of her debut the fortunes of the Theatre were 
secured for the season. 

In what lay the charms of this new fascinator of all 
hearts? It would be difficult to tell : although this much 
is undeniable, that she exercised an almost magical power 
over the masses. The statistics of a " treasury " are 
indisputable facts. Her voice was a high and pure 
soprano, with all the attraction of youthfulness and 
freshness; not wide in range, sweet rather than power- 
ful, and not gifted with any perfection of fluency or 
flexibility. Her vocalization was far from being dis- 
tinguished by its correctness or excellence of school. 
Her acting was simple, graceful, natural, and apparently 
spontaneous and untutored. To musicians she appeared 
a clever amateur, but never a great artist.* Again, 
then, in what lay this wonderful power of fascination? 
She was not beautiful. She was piquante, pretty, 
graceful. Her figure was slender and well formed ; her 
movements were replete with vivacity; her features 
were full of expression, and capable of rendering every 
feeling, from archness and coquettish humour to the 

in Florence, Eome, and Turin, she was welcomed as the spoiled child of 
the public. In the " Traviata," more especially, her success was enthusi- 
astic. On many occasions her ardent admirers would have dragged her 
carriage home, had not the spirited girl herself protested against such 
mistaken homage, or escaped by a ruse from so doubtful a triumph. 

* A theatrical critic in Paris, where she afterwards appeared, and 
again with success, wrote truthfully of her — " She sings with infinite 
charm ; but is not a cantatrice. She acts with talent ; but is not an 
actress ! She is a problem — an enigma I" 



ATTRACTION OF PICCOLOMINI. 377 

deepest pathos. This was much, but not sufScient to 
account for the mania that pervaded opera-goers like a 
fever. Where, then, lay the secret? It was in the -in- 
describable " something " that bewitched all hearts. It 
was to be found in the expressive eyes — in the winning 
gesture — even in the coquettish little toss of the head. 
It lay in the joyous, free, ethereal essence of her whole 
being, and in the pathos which at times was so nigh 
akin to truth and superior to art. It consisted in an 
indefinable charm, which attracted and delighted in de- 
fiance of critical canons. It is vain, then, to attempt 
to define the indefinable, to attempt to describe the in- 
describable. Those who heard the fascinating little 
prima donna may ask of memory what it was that 
touched their own hearts, and find the response in 
themselves. A younger generation who did not know 
her may wonder at this all-powerful attraction of a 
singer who was not an artist in the strictest sense of the 
word, and question how it could have been. Explana- 
tion must be eschewed. They must content themselves 
with the answer that so it was, that so it must have 
been. 

To resume. Mademoiselle Piccolomini appeared in 
the " Traviata" of Verdi. Opera and singer both were 
new. Curiosity and interest were excited both for the one 
and the other. There was an overflowing house. As 
during the coming season, so through her first night was 
the charming young lady's success unquestionable. 
After a warm reception, such as English audiences 
are wont to give by way of welcome to a meritorious 
stranger. Mademoiselle Piccolomini was to be heard and 
judged — ^and (what, as it turned out, was more to the 



378 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

purpose) she was to be seen. Applause followed her 
opening efforts. The charm of manner had begun to 
work. The second act produced at its conclusion a 
burst of genuine enthusiasm. At the end of the opera 
it was a frenzy ! The whole house rose to congratulate 
the singer when recalled. The charm was complete. 
The vivacity, the grace, the spirit, the pathos, the 
truthfulness of her simple and original style of acting 
(especially in the death-scene of the Jinale), had worked 
their spell. Marietta Piccolomini was adopted at once 
as the pet (and afterwards how much petted !) child of 
Her Majesty's Theatre. 

Verdi's music now shared the same fate as its fortu- 
nate exponent. It pleased — it was run after — it be- 
came one of the most popular compositions of the time. 
It is true that musical "purists" cavilled and criticized 
severely : that anti-Verdists denounced it with all the epi- 
thets of their stereotyped vocabulary as " trashy, flimsy, 
meretricious." But in spite of opposition and of bigotry, 
it not only attracted (perhaps even more than any other 
of Verdi's operas) countless crowds when the favourite, 
" charming little Piccolomini" was its exponent, but 
achieved a marked and lasting popularity at other 
theatres as well as in every music-hall throughout the 
land. Notwithstanding the accusation that the " Tra- 
viata" was "weak and commonplace," the "catching" 
melody, and above all the dramatic force and expression 
of a composer whose principal merit consisted in the 
peculiarity that he really was dramatic, gained upon the 
masses. It attained considerable popularity, moreover, in 
despite of a dangerous and equivocal subject ; one which 
was denounced from the pulpit, denounced by mighty 



"la traviata." 379 

authority in the press, denounced even, at one time, 
by popular sentiment itself.* 

The enthusiasm excited by Madame Piccolomini was 
gradually reaching fever-point when Madame Albertini 
made her first appearance in the " Trovatore." This 
lady brought from Italy a reputation of the highest 
rank. As the favourite pupil of the celebrated Madame 
Ungher — as the pet protegee of Rossini, who, it was 

* It was notorious that the subject of the " Traviata" had been 
adapted from the play of Alexandre Dumas, fils, from " La Dame aux 
Camillas" — ^itself derived from his own eccentric and q.ueBtionable 
novel of the same title. That the heroine vras well known to be a 
person of damaged reputation was sufficient (although an awful punish- 
ment both of mind and body awaits her misdeeds in the story) to occa- 
sion the production to be denounced in England as highly " immoral," 
and to account for what followed in course of time. Permission was 
in vain demanded of the Lord Chamberlain to allow adaptations of the 
drama to appear upon the English stage. That this prohibition should 
have been enforced on a stage where " George Barnwell," and more 
especially " Jane Shore — "(the heroine of which old tragedy is also a 
sympathetic Traviata, who dies a miserable death) — are upheld as " fine 
old legitimate" plays, and were once produced on the chief assemblage of 
the youth of the age at Christmas-tide, did not appear very consistent, 
or even logical : and the " Traviata" appeared. And a considerable sur- 
prise (in spite of all previous minor " grumblings") fell upon the public 
when it found its favourite opera morally crushed to the earth by the 
mighty thunder of the press. The " foul and hideous horrors" of the 
" Traviata" were held up as proper objects for " deep and unmitigated 
censure" in the leading journal. One clap of thunder followed on the 
other. In a long letter I published an elaborate defence of my opera, 
against the accusation of its blatant "immorality." This letter appeared 
duly in the columns of the Times as an appendix to a still more crushing 
denunciation. Minor journals flashed their own smaller lightnings in 
sympathetic response to this storm from " the Thunderer." But the 
public was not to be lectured out of its treat. It would not consider 
its morality endangered. It still flocked to Verdi's opera and the fas- 
cinating Piccolomini. The only effect of the unexpected storm was to 
blast a striking drama which happened to be playing at the time at the 
Olympic Theatre, and which,being considered objectionable because vice 
met with no " Ketribution," was included in this chance censure. 



380 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

said, had laboured zealously to bestow all the advan- 
tages of his great experience on ..her career, "she had 
earned for herself a well-merited fame. With a voice 
of great power, and many qualifications for a " first- 
class" dramatic singer, she had a just claim to the 
sympathies of the audiences of Her Majesty's Theatre. 
But indulgently as Madame Albertini was received on 
her first night, much as her great merits, both as a can- 
tatrice and as a, great lyrical actress, were recognised, 
she failed to establish any permanent success upon the 
boards of Her Majesty's Theatre. The secret was, her 
voice had lost its freshness. Although she was applauded, 
and seemingly successful, this fatal fact prevented her 
obtaining any firm footing. As Cruvelli had fled on her 
first season, eclipsed and blinded by the brilliant halo 
shed around the name of Jenny Lind, so Madame Alber- 
tini, in her turn, was perhaps unfavourably situated at 
this period, and could find only cold shades when all the 
brilliant sunlight of an audience's happiest smiles was 
cast upon the fortunate little " fire-fly," already in pos- 
session of their hearts. 

Signor Baucardd, already favourably known on the 
boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, and now the husband 
of Madame Albertini, appeared as the Manrico and the 
Gennaro of the operas selected for that lady's debuts. 
Improved in many respects, both as a singer and an 
actor, he received his share of the applause elicited on 
these occasions; but, like his lady, he failed in achieving 
any striking popularity. Indeed, in the " Trovatore" 
Madame Alboni may be said to have carried off the 
chief honours as the gipsy Azucena* 

* No doubt the singing of tliis great contralto was exquisite in this 
part. But Madame Alboni was also generally supposed to have developed 



MARIE TAGLIONI. 381 

The fortunes of Her Majesty's Theatre were now once 
more borne along on a pleasant current. Although a 
small feminine hand was obviously steering the bark on 
its prosperous way, the gallant crew were also doing 
their part in aid of its progress. The charming Marie 
Taglioni had arrived to assist, as premiere danseuse, the 
four debutantes who had opened the pleasures of the 
hallet so successfully. To the high distinction of ^'■pre- 
miere" she had now acquired an indisputable title. The 
experience of years had given her greater force and finish. 
Always a favourite, she was now the favoured one; and 
with her clever father as maitre de hallet, and such 
excellent male coadjutors as Monsieur Charles and 
Monsieur Vanders, she delighted all lovers of the ballet. 

At this juncture came to England the German celebrity 
already announced, to the general astonishment. Old 
feuds had been forgiven and well-nigh forgotten ;* and 
when Mademoiselle Johanna Wagner appeared upon the 
stage of Her Majesty's Theatre a generous public eased 
her mind at once, and, by receiving her with acclamation, 
showed that it had wiped from its memory the bitter 



into an actress of superior povrers. The truth was, that she simply 
took the audience by surprise by acting somewhat better than was 
expected of her ! " Great" her acting certainly was not. It was only 
good /or Alboni ! 

* A few hisses, it is true, on her first night, testified that all recol- 
lection of the outrage of the past had not been wholly swept away. 
That these expressions of disapprobation arose from popular feeling, 
and not from any critical judgment of her merits as a singer was 
obvious enough. 

Her first words to me, when I entered her room after her performance 
on her dibut, were, " Q,uel dommage queje ne suis pas venue quatre ans 
plutdt." There was doubtless some truth in the lady's observation. Her 
voice hi: d naturally lost much of that exquisite freshness which had 
characterized it five years previously. 



382 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

rancour occasioned by her father's stupid and insolent 
phrase. 

It was a singular scene when Mademoiselle Wagner 
stepped forward as the Borneo of Bellino's " Montecchi 
6 Capuletti, " on Saturday, the 14th June. The 
operatic world had felt its curiosity strained to the very 
highest powers of tension. Since the advent of Jenny 
Lind there had not existed a reputation of any celebrity 
respecting which so many horoscopes had been cast, and 
so much divination hazarded. Although still young, 
she already enjoyed a world-wide fame. Her achieve- 
ments as a great lyrical artist had been long blazoned 
abroad. To the curiosity excited by the first appearance 
of such a prize, once seemingly within the grasp of 
the frequenters of the old Opera-house and yet so un- 
auspiciously snatched from them, there was added another 
species of curiosity, as strong, if not in some minds 
stronger, to witness the reception of an artist whose 
delinquencies had created so great a sensation. She 
appeared : tall, stately, self-possessed, clothed in glittering 
gilded mail, with her fine fair hair flung in masses upon 
her neck : a superb air that seemed to give full earnest 
of victory, and a step revealing innate majesty and 
grandeur in every movement. Was it possible to gaze 
upon so grand an apparition, and murmur other tones 
than those of approbation ? She sang ! The sonorous 
voice, which heralded the mission of the young warrior to 
his enemies, rang through the house as penetrating and 
as awakening as the summons of a clarion. Was it pos- 
sible to listen and not feel every hostile feeling crushed? 
Gifted with a voice combining the resources of soprano 
and contralto in one — " or rather with two voices" (wrote 
one able critic on the occasion) — a well-accented style 



DfeBUT OF WAGNEE. 383 

of declamation — endowed with a grace which made every 
attitude a pictorial study, no wonder that Mademoiselle 
Johanna Wagner " took the house by storm." The 
union of such striking elements of lyrical art in one and 
the same person seemed to have suspended all power of 
cooler reflection in her audience, for it commanded burst 
after burst of admiration and applause. The Romeo of 
Mademoiselle Wagner may thus fairly take rank among 
the great successes witnessed within those walls. 

The evening on which Mademoiselle Wagner absorbed 
the powers of every ear and every eye, was marked by 
two other first appearances; that of Herr Keichart, a 
pleasant tenor, as Tehaldo ; and Mademoiselle Jenny 
Bauer, a useful soprano of the florid school, as Giulietta* 
Both were successful. But the excitement of the evening 
was all for the one great luminary, which for the time 
bedimned all else around it. 

In the next part in which she appeared Mademoiselle 
Wagner was not equally fortunate, although her ren- 
dering of the character of " Lucrezia Borgia" was a 
creditable effort. 

Mademoiselle Wagner was probably correct in the 
judgment that urged her to propose the "Orph^e" of 
Gliick as her second part. In that opera she felt sure of 
her success. She had faith now in the acceptance of 
the music " quasi dassique " (as she writes), by a public 
which she found to be far more enlightened than she 
had been taught to believe it. But at this late period 
of the season it was impracticable to set this work on 
the stage. 

* It was remarkable that the three principal personages of this emi- 
nently Italian opera were filled on this occasion by three German 
artists. 



384 REmNISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

A great portion of her prestige was regained by her as- 
sumption of one of the grand parts of Madame Pasta, viz., 
" Tancredi." In this rdle (once conceived the greatest 
of all the characters in the Operas of Kossini), the 
songstress was not compelled to contend against the 
partisanship of the admirers of other modern artists ; and 
in this opera she was accordingly triumphant. Perhaps 
in no part could she have shone more conspicuously as 
an " heroic" actress, little scope as the dull drama of 
" Tancredi" afforded for diversity of tragic feeling and 
passion ; and there could have been few operas, in any 
immediately available repertoire, in which all the mag- 
nificence of her peculiar voice could have been heard to 
greater advantage. Declamatory vigour, largeness of 
style and expression of sentiment, were made effective 
in her rendering of this part. Younger opera-goers had 
an opportunity of witnessing a display of vocal style 
and histrionic power of which, till now, they had only 
heard in connexion with the once great Pasta. These 
memories Johanna Wagner was able in some measure 
to revive before them; nevertheless, the opera itself, 
though once so popular, had but little share in the 
triumph of the performance,* so great had been the 
change in public taste. 

Was this transcendent artist, however, fortunate 
enough to establish, as she should Irave done, one of 
those extraordinary successes which mark an epoch in 

* In losing opportunities of appearing as a delineator of strong 
dramatic feelings, Mdlle. Wagner doubtless lost a great portion of her 
lawful prestige. As a concert-singer she never obtained any great 
popularity in England. At private concerts she felt the inferiority of 
the position awarded to her as compared with that of other artists, such 
as Madame Bosio for instance ; and she retired of her own accord from 
almost every invitation to sing on such occasions. 



PICCOLOMINI IN "la FIGLIA." 385 

the memory of opera-goers ? It cannot be said that 
she did. She flashed across the arena of Her Majesty's 
Theatre rather as a splendid meteor than as a sun to 
warm, to vivify, to remain a great and permanent glory. 
She came, like others of her predecessors, at a time 
unfortunate for her fame. Marietta Piccolomini had 
already insinuated herself into every heart. High art, 
alas ! paled before popular engouement. The perform- 
ances of Mademoiselle Wagner had the honour of bring- 
ing Her Majesty the Queen to the " old house," for the 
first time during the season. But they never fully 
penetrated, as they ought to have done, the general 
public. 

Meanwhile the witching little lady sported with her 
popularity like a favourite child. Her appearance in 
" La Figlia del Keggimento" was an enormous success 
with the public at large. She toyed with her part so 
pleasantly that, in spite of the memories of Jenny Lind 
and Sontag, the " cara bambina" was fondled more and 
more into popularity. She played with her music as 
she played with her acting. She vaulted over all its 
difficulties with that pretty air of triumph which so 
well became her. Few seemed inclined to ask, when 
under the charm of her seduction, whether her vocal 
achievements were such as the music of Donizetti de- 
manded. The " dash," the sparkling vivacity, and 
buoyant spirit appeared to be irresistible; and critical 
ears were obliged to succumb before the enchantress. 
Never did iAe zfo man exercise a more effective influence. 
Calzolari and Beletti supported her in the principal cha- 
racters with unusual zeal as well as histrionic excellence. 
Thus another Figlia was welcomed to the parental affec- 
tion of the public in the person of Marietta Piccolomini. 

c c 



386 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Not less, in public estimation, was the triumph of the 
captivating enchantress in the Norma of " Don Pas- 
quale." It was a part in which there were even more 
memories to contend with than in the Figlia — me- 
mories of great and surpassing cantatrici by the score. 
But what cared she for rivalry ? She was the darling, 
the pet, the spoiled child of the public which flocked to 
Her Majesty's Theatre to see and applaud her. Her 
acting^ more than her songs, was the topic of all tongues 
when Piccolomini was the theme of conversation. In 
the Norma, once more, her natural vivacity, her arch- 
ness, her humour, her sportive whim, were irresistible in 
their powers of captivation. The influence of her fresh, 
girlish voice, was doubtless one of the ingredients which 
combined to make up the entire compound of this 
singular, but yet indisputable success. As a vocalist, 
from a strictly musical point of view, few paused to 
judge her. Feeling, tact, pathos, humour, took the place 
of "school;" and in the general delight few asked for 
more. 

In the " Don Pasquale" she was again ably supported 
by Beletti and Calzolari. Signor Eossi, who had been 
engaged as basso huffo in the place of Signor Zucconi, 
proved himself far more efficient than his predecessor. 
Without any power of voice, he evinced, as an actor, a 
genuine breadth of humour, exempt from that perpetual 
strain of exaggerated gesticulations, so common to the 
Italian huffo. 

With such able allies as Alboni, Wagner, and Piccolo- 
mini, I fought a new operatic campaign during the season 
of 1856, and came off victorious. But, in the meanwhile, 
the pristine glories of the haUet had been by no means 
neglected. True to the traditions of the establishment, 



"lb coesaire." 887 

I produced once more a " Grand Ballet d' Action," with 
every appliance of gorgeous scenery and decoration. 
The most lavish expense was bestowed upon this pro- 
duction. It was to be a great trump-card towards 
winning in my hand. It was boldly and frankly 
played; but it failed to carry the day. " Le Corsaire," 
a ballet full of incident and interest (only partially 
founded on Lord Byron's poem), admirably constructed 
by Messrs. Saint George and Mazillier, and beautifully 
illustrated by Adolphe Adams' pretty music, had 
achieved a great success at the Academie Imperiale. 
As the leading spirit of this short, graphic drama, 
Eosati had won the highest honours in Paris, both as 
danseuse and mime. She now came to the support of 
Her Majesty's Theatre, bringing with her all her talent 
and all her witcheries. She danced — she acted. Her 
ethereal bounds across the stage were once more marvels 
of that apparently effortless power which constituted 
one of her distinguishing charms. By turns sporting 
with a cajoling grace, which was the very poetry of 
coquetry, and bursting forth into melodramatic vigour 
when the exigencies of the stirring story demanded a 
more powerful display, she proved herself a pantomimist 
worthy of the experienced Italian mimic, Eonzani, who 
acted the Conrad to her Medora. The dancing of 
Eosati and of the other principals — the general choreo- 
graphic ensemble — the gorgeous dresses — Marshall's 
beautiful scenery — the grouping and the mise en scene — 
all was enchanting ! The manoeuvres of the Corsair's 
vesssel in a storm ; the foundering of the ship in the 
wild waves; and the final rescue of Conrad and Medora 
from the wreck, formed the great attractive tableau, 
which, in more modern parlance, would have been called 

CC2 



388 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

" the grand sensation scene " of this ballet of the " good 
old school." But the " Corsaire," in spite of all its 
splendour — in spite of all the enormous expense be- 
stowed upon it — was not a source of remuneration to 
the Theatre. To say that it was a failure would be 
erroneous. It could not, perhaps, be called a " demi- 
fiasco;' but, as certainly it was only a demi-success. 
As has been so frequently explained already, the grand 
ballet d^ action had now lost its power of attraction. ' The 
majority of the male supporters of the ballet (as a mere 
display of dancing) had long decided upon eschewing 
all pantomime. They disliked the trouble of under- 
standing a "story," however lucidly set forth in mute 
action before them. They shut their eyes, and said, 
"We cannot understand it;" when the fashion of the 
day simply meant to say, " We will not understand it." 
They wanted only dancing, not acting, they said. They 
should, to tell the truth, have said, " We only want legs, 
hot brains." And so it was that the mere divertissement 
obtained an undue position on the great choreographic 
stage of London. 

The maligned but yet determinedly popular " Traviata" 
closed this " renaissance" season with e'c^ai on Saturday, 
the 16th August. The "wicked opera," with its fasci- 
nating exponents had been, in spite of all that was done, 
said, and written, the great success of the season, the 
great magic power to coin gold into the treasury. It 
brought the venture, so hazardous at the commencement, 
to a safe and prosperous conclusion. 

At the termination of a successful journey in the pro- 
vinces with Mademoiselle Piccolomini, and again, after 
two " extra-night" performances in the month of October 
on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, I departed, pass- 



ANECDOTES OF LABLACHE. 389 

ing through Paris, for Italy. Embarked once more with 
hope and confidence on my course, I was bent on seeking 
"fresh fields and pastures new," and on discovering 
flowers unknown to English eyes wherewith to deck my 
theatre for another season. 

In Turin I was, as usual, most kindly received by the 
British Minister Sir James Hudson, who had already 
pointed out artists of talent as available for Her 
Majesty's Theatre : among others Giuglini. " They 
belong to a new school," he wrote; "iAe new school, which 
is gradually rising again from the ashes of our old friends, 
the Tamburinis, the Eubinis, the Lablaches." The Due 
de Grammont, at that time French Minister in Turin, 
also warmly seconded me in all my artistic views and 
wishes, with as much tact as kindness. 

The disappearance of Lablache from the lyrical stage 
gives a melancholy importance to this season. There was 
a greatness about this genuine artist to which no parallel 
can be offered ; and I recollect a person of distinction 
saying that he never thought of him without recalling to 
mind the Scriptural record, " There were giants in the 
land in those days." His style was as grand as his person 
was large ; yet there were no subtleties too nice to escape 
his power of delineation. When, in early days, he played 
the Mad Father in the now-forgotten opera of " Agnese" 
(which by the way was founded on one of Mrs. Opie's 
novels), he varied the insanity according to the country 
in which he acted, representing an Italian madness at 
Naples, a German madness at Vienna. 

His bonhomie was irresistible. I recollect an occa- 
sion when he had a long conversation with Jenny Lind, 
previous to her debut at Her Majesty's Theatre. She 
appeared timid and reserved ; but he dexterously turned 



390 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the discourse so as to treat of her past career and Conti- 
nental success. The charm was not to he withstood. 
She took up the thread where Lablache had dropped it, 
and, while her countenance flashed with vivacity, seemed 
to forget everything but her own triumphs. 

With the portly figure of Lablache a droll story is 
connected. When at Paris, he was accustomed, like 
Eossini and other notabilities, to choose for- his prome- 
nade the part of the Boulevart des Italiens which lies be- 
tween the Chaus^e d'Antin and the Passage del'Op^ra. 
One winter's day a violent shower caused him to seek 
refuge in the entrance of the passage, and soon afterwards 
a young gamin bethought himself of the same shelter. 
However, to enter a passage barricaded by a Lablache 
was no very easy matter, especially when the colossal 
basso had his elbows extended under an ample cloak, 
and swayed from one side of the passage to the other. 
The boy, tired of dodging the living gate, took hold of 
a corner of the giant's cloak, and pulling it lustily, cried, 
" Cordon, s'il vous plait !" — the expression in use when 
the concierge is required to open a door. Lablache 
entered into the humour of the position, and as he let the 
boy pass imitated the motion of a door turning on its 
hinges. 



391 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

Brief Notice of the " Jullien Concerts" at the Opera House, in 1856 — 
The Bal Masqu& — Comments of the Press thereon — Departure of 
the Director for Italy — Mdlle. Ortolani — Her Qualifications for 
the Stage set forth by Correspondents — Verdi, invited to 
produce a New Opera, "Imogen" — Engagement of Signer 
Giuglini, and Mdlle. Pocchini, the Italian "Danseuse" — The 
English Minister at Turin — Introduces Me to Count Cavour 
— Conversation with the Count on the Journey from Turin — 
Visits to various Cities, unproductive of Eesults — ^Dearth of Artists 
of Merit — Altered Character of the Opera Audiences — A wider 
Eange of Support given by the General Public than that hitherto 
afforded by the Aristocratic Class — This Element less certain than 
the old " Subscription" as a Source of Profit — Activity of the Com- 
petition between the two Opera Establishments — Constancy of the 
British People to their favourite Artists — Giuglini— Anecdote 
concerning Him. 

The difficulties of the operatic campaign of 1856 had 
been very great. The necessity of commencing it 
without adequate time for preparation was a drawback 
which necessarily, more or less, affected the success of 
the season. Sufficient, however, had been achieved to 
enable me not only to meet every liability incurred 
with respect to the artists, but also to pay the rent due 
to the nobleman who had now the Cerberus-like position 
of patron, landlord, and creditor, all in one. Sufficient 
had been achieved, also, to enable me to make my pre- 
parations for the coming season on a large scale with 
the fairest confidence in the future* 



392 EEMINISCENCES 01" THE OPERA. 

At a late period during the previous year a com- 
bination had been entered into with Monsieur JuUien 
for a series of those popular " Promenade Concerts," for 
the direction of which the lively French conductor was 
at that time so famous, to be given at Her Majesty's 
Theatre. With a powerful band, and soloists of emi- 
nence and distinction, the performances of alternate 
popular and (so-called) "classical" music oifered 
powerful elements of attraction. Through the assistance 
of Miss Catherine Hayes, as principal vocalist, these 
concerts commanded a tolerable success. With a 
prima donna placed upon a still higher pinnacle of 
popular favour, they would doubtless have achieved 
still greater results. They were terminated, in the month 
of December, by one of those celebrated bals masques, 
without which, as a grand bouquet, none of the musical 
fireworks of Monsieur JuUien would have been con- 
sidered complete.* 

At the conclusion of the above-mentioned perform- 
ances I departed, early in January, 1857, on another 

* Mach comment took place at the time upon the indiscretion of 
permitting a bal masquS to take place at Her Majesty's Theatre only 
a few months after the burning of Covent Garden on a similar occa- 
sion; and, for the first time, some ungentle remarks were made as to their 
moral influence. Every precaution, however, that science, care, and 
prudence could suggest to avoid all possibility of any disaster had been 
adopted. Human foresight had done all that humanity could do ; and, 
in other respects, the powerful organ, which had chiefly used its influ- 
ence against the ball being given — was the first to admit that, " it was 
one of the most ' decorous and well-conducted that we are able to 
remember." The crowd on the occasion was enormous ; and the coup 
d'oeil surpassed all previous scenes of the kind in magnificence and 
taste. I gave a supper to my friends and the literati of the day on 
the occasion, and subsequently presented a handsome vase to Monsieur 
JuUien, to stamp the success of this series of concerts. 



KE-ENGAGEMENT OP PICCOLOMINI. 393 

of my continental journeys, a la chasse des artistes. 
Much had already been done in preparation for the 
ensuing campaign. Negociations were completed with a 
variety of desirable "subjects." Others were still pend- 
ing. Above all, the successful debutante of the previous 
season, the " pet of the public," the great little " crowd- 
compeller," who had been the leading " Beus ex machind" 
to effect the notable change in the fortunes of Her 
Majesty's theatre — Marietta Piccolomini — had been 
secured. This little lady was evidently overjoyed at 
her surpassing success in London. In every letter she 
was lavish of her acknowledgments to " i miei carissimi 
Inglesi" and eager to return to " ^a mia carissima 
Londra." At one time she announced herself as 
" V amhasciadrice" of Signer Alary, who was desirous of 
composing a new opera for the boards of Her Majesty's 
Theatre; the libretto to be founded on the subject of 
Manzoni's celebrated novel of '^ I Promessi Sposi;" and 
the young prima donna entered with all the zest of her 
lively temperament into these negociations. That she 
Avas not devoted solely to modern Italian music was 
evinced also by her desire to make her re-appearance in 
the Zerlina of " Don Giovanni." 

I had also entertained the intention of re-engaging 
JIademoiselle Johanna Wagner as an additional attrac- 
tion for the coming season. But this intention was 
(loomed never to be fulfilled. Being very anxious 
to sing the Fides of the "Prophete," she strenuously 
urged on me the " mounting " of Meyerbeer's grand 
opera. To this intent, she recommended strongly Herr 
Formes (the brother of the well-known basso) as an 
admirable representative of John of Leyden^ he having 
studied the part under the immediate auspices of Meyer- 



394 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

beer himself. " Give the ' Prophete ' " was her constant 
strain. " II vous faut dbsolument de grands ophas : 
car le repertoire Italien, malheureusement pour les entre- 
preneurs et les chanteurs, est devenu Men maigre" 
There is no doubt that the artist was right in her 
judgment. M. Paul Taglioni called my attention to 
Madame Csillag, who was then singing at Vienna, and 
whose representations he had followed, as " une bonne 
artiste^ excellente musicienne, douee d'un physique agre- 
aile, possedante une voix admirable d'une etendue 
rare ;" and he urged her engagement for the opening of 
the season of 1857. This prima donna, so great a 
favourite of the Viennese, was however not destined to 
appear at Her Majesty's Theatre. 

A new " star " was looked for in Mademoiselle Orto- 
lani, then prima donna assoluta of the Eoyal Opera at 
Lisbon, of whom fame spoke " trumpet-tongued." 
Beneventano, engaged at the time for the winter season 
at the same opera-house, wrote to me in raptures 
respecting this new singer. " Voila les renseignements, 
quej'ai h vous donner de Mademoiselle Ortolani" says 
a letter from this artist, dated from Lisbon, in the 
month of January, 1857. '^ JElle est agee de 22 ans. 
Son physique est ires agreable a la scene. Sa taille 
est celle de Madame Bosio. Sans krejolie, elle posslde 
ce charme qui fascine aisement le public. Son ceil est 
vif, grand, et noir — sa chevelure noire et volumineuse — 
son teint plutdt brun. Son caractere est doux. Elle est 
d'une modestie et d'une complaisance sans exemple. Sa 
voix est etendue, souple, melodieuse: et sa gorge est 
celle d'un rossignol, ainsi que Vappellait Bubini." In 
the same letter Signer Beneventano speaks of another 
chanteuse, since well known and greatly appreciated in 



" IMOGEN." 395 

London. " Touchant Mademoiselle Parepa^ avec sa 
voix fratche^ elle a fait une impression au commence- 
ment. Mais son inexperience, et sa froideur naturelle, 
ont de'truit cette heureuse impression. Son physique, a 
Page de 19 ans, dispute Vembonpoint avec Madame 
Alboni." 

To increase the prestige of the campaign about to be 
commenced, I had fostered the plan, among other de- 
signs, of attaching the popular composer, Signor Verdi, 
to the theatre for some months during the season, for 
the purpose of producing a new opera, composed ex- 
pressly for Her Majesty's Theatre (if not two novelties), 
and of superintending the general finish of works 
already in the repertoire, such as the " Traviata" and 
the " Trovatore." 

With these intentions, my first occupation on reaching 
Paris, as the first great scene of action on my continental 
excursion, was to seek an interview with Signor Verdi, 
and arrange with him the basis of the negociations by 
which this important plan might be carried out. I 
found the composer willing to enter into my views, but 
desirous, before final decision, of returning to his own 
residence in Italy in order to finish the opera on which 
he was then engaged, without that interruption to the 
sequence of his ideas which was constantly occurring 
in the v/hirl of Parisian life. I placed, however, in the 
musician's hands the libretto of a new opera, to be called 
" Imogen," founded on Shakspeare's play of " Cymbe- 
line," with the subject of which Verdi appeared much 
pleased.* 

On to Italy ! In Turin no operatic engagements were 

* In the course of this interview, Verdi told me that he had composed 
the " Trovatore" in ten days, and the first act of the " Traviata" in four 



396 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

effected ; but recruits were enlisted for the ballet forces.* 

days, at Genoa, where he was detained by stress of weather, and re- 
mained incog. He said also that he always composed his harmonies at 
the same time as his melodies ; or as musicians would say, composed 
" in score." In illustration of this seeming facility in producing re- 
sults, I may quote an anecdote related by L6on Escudier, in his " Sou- 
venirs," concerning Horace Vernet. 

A wealthy Englishman once asked the great painter to contribute 
some little sketch, no matter of what subject, to his album, adding that 
he would willingly remunerate him for doing so. Vernet, accordingly, 
drew a head of a horse, in outline, on a blank page of the album. The 
delighted possessor inquired how much he had to pay. " Twenty-five 
guineas." "What!" exclaimed the Englishman, "twenty-five guineas 
for five minutes' work ?" " You are under a mistake," replied Vernet ; 
" There is ten years' work in that horse's head." 

In a letter written about a month afterwards Signer Verdi accepted 
the proposal, on the terms oiTered him, to come to London for two 
months, about the middle of April. But he agreed only to " mount" two 
operas — •' composes et dSja rSjpresenih dans d'autres tMdires" — " Luisa 
Miller" and " Simon Boccanegra" being the works proposed. Any 
other expectations in the way of novelty Signor Verdi declined to fulfil. 

* Eonzani, the Director of the Teatro Eegio was very anxious, on 
this occasion, to enter upon the management also of " La Scala," at 
Milan, in case I would become his coadjutor. After some hesitation 
the negociation, however, did not proceed. 

Nothing could exceed the kindness shown to me on this as on all 
occasions by my friend Sir James Hudson, the English Minister. It 
was during this short visit to Turin that I was introduced to the great 
Italian statesman Ca vour, at the spontaneous solicitation of that minister. 
Iwas taken by Sir James Hudson intoCavour's box at the theatre, where I 
talked for some time with him. By chance, on leaving Turin, I met Count 
Cavour at the railway station. The statesman invited me to travel in 
the official carriage provided as far as our directions went together. 
In the course of conversation I remarked that tha necessity of talking 
was one of the inconveniences of constitutional governments, and that, 
in my own little sphere, I should dislike very much to explain my views 
on all occasions. Cavour replied quickly, "On ne s'explique pas, on 
.r^ond seulement." He was then on his way to some place where he 
had promised to be godfather to the child of one of the government 
officials. On his return from his further expedition, I was frequently 
summoned to conferences with the statesman, from which it seemed at 
one time probable that important results to my own advantage might 
have followed. 



MY "progress" through ITALY. 397 

At Milan I concluded the important engagement of the 
now celebrated tenor, Giuglini, then unknown in Eng- 
land, but whose future greatness I clearly foresaw; for- 
warded the negociations with the father of Mademoiselle 
Spezia, amidst those thousand difficulties with which a 
^'■phre d' artiste" always environs all operatic and 
.theatrical engagements, especially in the country 
where ruse and diplomacy are regarded as the highest 
virtues of the prudent and sagacious ; and was struck at 
La Scala with that fascinating danseiise, Mademoiselle 
Pocchini, of whose success in London I felt in every 
way assured, and whom I marked for an engagement.* 
Mantua, Venice, Verona, were all visited and ran- 
sacked to see what operatic treasures they might contain. 
Everywhere notes were taken of every possibly available 
artist, and the merits of each weighed in that balance 
which can only be adjusted by ripened experience, even 
when held in a director's hand. February found me 
in Genoa, and again in Turin. In the latter city, 
where all smiled upon me, I naturally lingered, in the 
prosecution of not only my operatic negociations, but 
of other affairs which pressed upon the notice of the 
impresario of Her Majesty's Theatre in London when- 
ever he appeared in Italy. There, where operatic 
affairs, cabals, and intrigues form so great a portion of 

* I may observe that I arriyed at Milan during the rejoicings which 
were taking place upon the declaration of the general amnesty granted 
by the young Emperor of Austria. The emperor and empress were 
received with acclamation and every demonstration of enthusiasm, in the 
city. The Milanese seemed all at once to have become Austrian. I 
was invited to a great Ballo di Festa given in the Scala Theatre to 
the emperor and empress by the municipality of Milan, and was much 
struck with the arrangements of this festive scene, and the magnificence 
of the salle with its illumination a giorno. The fUes and illuminations 
of the city still continued during the whole of my stay. 



398 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the life, the thoughts, and, as it were, the " daily bread'' 
of all men, an importance wa^ given to the " progress" 
of a certain individual which, in other countries, 
where operatic matters are less " the be-all and the 
end-air' of existence, would only be assigned to the 
journey of a monarch. 

Through Paris hastily, and I was once more in. 
London to devote my personal care and superintendence 
to the preparations for the opening of my great estab- 
lishment for the season of 1857. 

The enthusiasm which had greeted the opening of 
Her Majesty's Theatre in the previous year had visibly 
not been confined to the more exclusive circles of the 
old opera-goers and the beau monde ; it had evidently 
been shared by a far more widely extended mass of the 
public, gradually educated to claim a share in those 
refinements of social life which, not many years before, 
had been considered the sole property of a comparative 
few. The hearty interest in the performances of Italian 
opera at Her Majesty's Theatre evinced by the crowds 
which had thronged the house during the whole short 
season of 1856, was a sufficient proof that a pride in 
the prestige of the old theatre was felt by thousands 
beyond the customary subscribers and the old habitue's. 
Still the times were critical for operatic speculation. 
The war between two rival operatic theatres was to 
commence once more in good earnest. The opportunity 
afforded by the destruction of Covent Garden in the pre- 
vious year had indeed enabled me to start into new life, 
like a phoenix from the ashes of my rival's fire ; and the 
appreciation which had then welcomed my efforts to soar 
aloft again on the wings of a company hastily impro- 
vised had given me encouragement and confidence in 
the future. Still I had to gird up my loins for the con- 



BRITISH CONSERVATISM. 399 

test. The phalanx of forces I had now been able to 
array in battle was a brilliant one, fully capable of 
undertaking an even severer struggle. In some respects 
it was unfortunate that many of the allies I had 
summoned around me were comparatively unknown to 
British fame. As has been already remarked, a British 
public is of a thoroughly conservative nature. It will 
welcome old favourites with the old enthusiasm, even 
though their powers may be materially diminished, and 
their talent stalks along the stage a mere ghost of its 
own brilliant self. Unlike other countries, where curi- 
osity and interest are heightened by the charm of 
novelty, and love of art is piqued by the opportunity 
of exercising judgment and taste, a British public is apt 
to look upon new candidates for its favour with suspi- 
cion and mistrust. My adversary had the advantage of 
exhibiting an array of operatic leaders, in many respects 
worn out and effete, but crowned long since with well- 
won laurels and, as old favourites, certain to be still 
not only endured but welcomed with the enthusiasm of 
times gone by.* The brilliant display of young, fresh, 
seductive, but unknown talent was thus rather a disad- 
vantage, in the case of the Director of Her Majesty's 
Theatre, than an additional attraction. But conscious 
that I had catered judiciously, and believing that I 
deserved well of my generation of opera-goers, I bided 
my time of progressive appreciation with confidence, 

* Italian artists never seem to have suflSciently appreciated the re- 
markable constancy of the British pnblio. Once wedded to an artist 
in the bonds of favouritism, it appears to have vowed to take that 
spouse of favour " for better, for worse," and to be determined to close 
its eyes, or rather ears, to the fact that beauty of voice, power of ex- 
pression, charm of talent have gradually faded and fled. It still loves 
on— a model of constancy. If such constancy be a virtue, it ought to 
receive grateful acknowledgment. 



400 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

hoping that among my many brilliant coadjutors, some 
one or more might help me to win the victory. 

The array of new promised talent was certainly as 
brilliant as it Avas unprecedented. In addition to Alboni 
and the chief attraction of the previous season, Marietta 
Piccolomini, were to appear Mademoiselle Spezia, one of 
the most admired of modern singers in the chief operatic 
theatres of Italy, as well as of St. Petersburg, Madrid, 
and Lisbon (heralded by an extraordinary reputation), 
and . Mademoiselle Ortolan i, of whom fame also spoke 
most highly ; together with many other cantatrici of minor 
note. Mademoiselle Spezia, I should observe, like her pre- 
decessor, Piccolomini, was of noble birth, and had yielded 
to the overpowering influence of an artistic temperament 
in appearing on the stage. For a singer whose career had 
been so triumphant she was still marvellously young. 
One of her greatest successes, like her little rival, had 
been in the " Traviata." The opera had on its first re- 
presentation proved a complete failure. Its composer 
was in despair, when La Spezia was summoned to the 
rescue, and she secured for the opera a success which 
lasted for six-and-twenty consecutive performances. 

As principal tenor stood, first, Giuglini, then rising 
into repute as the tenor of Italy par excellence, and the 
future successor to the fame of the once celebrated Rubini. 
To him was adjoined Signer Bottardi, a favourite tenor 
in the north of Italy. In their positions of the previous 
year were announced the ever-welcome, steady, and true 
artist Beletti, with Beneventano and Eossi, the buffo 
who had made a favourable impression towards the end 
of the season. But to these established names were 
added now those of Signer Corsi (whose merits, however, 
were rather those of an actor than a singer) and of Signer 
Vialetti, an excellent and accomplished iasso, now first 



STRENGTH OF THE BALLET. 401 

recommended to English appreciation by the repute he 
had lately gained at Lisbon. 

The promise of attraction in the ballet department 
had been enormously increased. The list of names of 
choreographic excellence and fame extended to a length 
which passed all previous limits.* In addition to Eosati 
and Marie Taglioni, the popular favourites, and other 
danseuses who had distinguished themselves during the 
previous season, were now to come Mademoiselle Poc- 
chini, one of the most celebrated of the ballet stars of 
Italy, whose talent and charm had so much struck 
me on my first witnessing her performance at Milan, 
and Mesdemoiselles Rolla, Brunetti, Salvioni, Morlacchi, 
Karliski, and Pasquali — all aspirants for the first time 
for English honours. Equally strong were the addi- 
tions to the ballet among the male exponents of the 
art. Not only were the celebrated maitres de danse 
and 5a?to-composers Konzani and Paul Taglioni again 
engaged, but to this strong force was added Monsieur 
Massot, the favourite arranger of the ballets of the 
Opera of Madrid; also Monsieur Petit, long known 
as a charming choreographic composer on the Eng- 
lish stage. Furthermore, to second Monsieur Charles, 
the favourite male dancer of the day and husband of 
the fascinating Marie Taglioni, I had a list of male 
dancers and pantomimists, culled from various 
theatres in Italy (and all claiming the rank of prin- 
cipals), to the amount of half a dozen; for Italy, who 
had lost her supremacy of song, now outshone France 

* In a letter which treats of the opening of the theatre, Lord Ward, 
who claimed from his position to be the constant adviser of the director, 
writes — "It strikes me you have an enormous hallef, I do not know 
how you will place them all." 

D D 



402 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

as the nursery of dancers. The array was extraordi- 
nary : and, little as England was accustomed to receive 
with regard the larger and superior kind of choreogra- 
phic exhibition, and grudgingly as it awarded the 
slightest meed of applause to male dancing, it 
augured at all events from such unusual preparation 
some display of more than ordinary power and extent 
of variety. 



403 



CHAPTER XXV. 

Ample " Bill of Fare" provided for the Season of 1857 — Cordial Ap- 
proval of the Same by the Subscribers — Opening Night — Brilliant 
Debut of Signor Giuglini— His Eeception Flattering — MdUe. 
Spezia — Pocchini — The Ballet; eclipsed by the Lyric- Artist's 
Success — Bentrie of Piccolomini— Warmly welcomed by Audience 
— Ortolani — Her Merits described — Predominant Attraction of 
Piccolomini — Mad. Alboni — Her Vocal Perfection — Signor Corsi's 
Dibui — The Opera of "Don Giovanni" produced with strong 
Cast — Its Attraction — New Work brought out forEosati, "Mario 
Spada" — Vexatious Incidents in reference to the Claims of inferior 
Danseuses to prominent Positions — Arrival of Marie Taglioni — 
Close of the Season — ^Extra Performances — The Marchesa Picco- 
lomini's interference in Mdlle. Piccolomini's Affairs — Good Feeling 
displayed by the Latter towards the Management — Giuglini True 
and Loyal also — Solid Success of the Operatic Season, Dis- 
couraging Circumstances notwithstanding — The Winter Operas. 

The great trumpet-blast of warfare had been blown in 
the extensive prospectus of the Direction. The note 
was brilliant and clear, and sufficient to startle the 
public out of any possible apathy. The spectators of 
the coming fight were to be the paymasters of the war 
expenses. How would they respond to the powerful 
rSveilleef That was shortly to be seen. The cam- 
paign of 1857 began on the field of Her Majesty's 
Theatre on Tuesday, the 14th of April. 

It was natural to suppose that the extraordinary 

D D 2 



404 EEMINISCENCES OP THE OPEEA. 

scene of enthusiasm which marked the opening, of the 
" old house" in the previous season, after years of sad 
dreariness, could not with any possibility be once more 
displayed, seeing that the tumult of extraordinary ope- 
ratic congratulation had long since subsided. A slight 
reaction might have been indeed expected. But this 
was far from being the case. The second " resuscitation 
season" was inaugurated with demonstrations of fer- 
vour and delight perhaps even surpassing the 
popular expressions of joy in 1856. The restoration 
of the long absent, and (as was thought) deposed ruler, 
was then to be celebrated ; but now again crowds seemed 
to flock around him with every evidence of " loyalty 
and love," as if to assure him that the public desired 
nothing better than a firm and permanent establishment 
of the dynasty. 

If prosperity could be augured from the appearance 
of the house on the opening night of 1857, that of 
the season seemed ensured. It was altogether a most 
brilliant affair. The theatre was crowded, whilst the 
whole entertainment called forth unequivocal marks 
of satisfaction. The director was enthusiastically sum- 
moned to receive the congratulations of his audience. 
The principal vocalists were all recalled. In short, the 
good augury was stamped by every possible manifesta- 
tion of success. 

" La Favorita" had been selected for the introduction 
of three new aspirants for favour on the Anglo-Italian 
boards. It savours of want of gallantry to give pre- 
cedence of record to the success of the principal male 
vocalist, who appeared on this occasion. But there is 
no doubt that he was the principal object upon whom 
interest and curiosity were fixed. It was he, in truth, 



DEBUT OF GIUGLINI. 405 

who produced the greatest effect on that evening. Fame 
had blown her trumpet so loudly over the head of 
Signor Giuglini, the new tenor; rumour had accom- 
panied the blast with so many variations in the shape 
of illustrative anecdotes respecting his career, that 
operatic minds had been " screwed up" very high. Was 
he to be again one of those vocalists, who had been 
painted in such colossal proportions in the columns of 
French, Spanish, or German newspapers, but who had 
appeared such comparative pigmies when placed before 
eyes unaided by the magnifying glasses of an ardent 
imagination? A London audience was to judge. Signor 
Giuglini sang his opening air. There was no need to 
wait for judgment. The verdict was given on the spot. 
The singer was received on the strength of that one 
air into that temple of favour in which he has ever 
since stood undisturbed upon his pedestal. With a 
voice of peculiar lusciousness, which could only be re- 
proached with its over-honied sweetness, and possibly the 
singer's tendency to prolong its notes even to the danger 
of cloying the ear; with a command of power, as well 
as delicacy of feeling; with a faultless intonation, and a 
chest voice which scorned the use o^ falsetto ; no wonder 
that Signor Giuglini quickly penetrated the hearts of 
his audience. Doubts might be raised against his right 
to be considered a dramatic artist. But he possessed 
in an unusual degree that quality which an English 
audience looks to as the first and almost only requisite 
for a favourite tenor — a quality which leads them to 
overlook deficiencies of dramatic talent — namely, a lovely 
voice. With this one quality, and that one of extra- 
ordinary charm, no wonder that Signor Giuglini carried 
all before him. His audience was fairly entranced, 



406 llEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

and only awoke from the spell to overwhelm him with 
applause. 

I may here tak% occasion to remark, that as Baucardd 
had been summoned from the kitchen to become a^primo 
tenore, so had Giuglini been ravished from the clutches 
of the priesthood. He began his professional career in 
the choir of the metropolitan church of Fermo, and was 
destined, 'it is said, for an ecclesiastical career. His 
excellence, first as a treble, and afterwards as a tenor, 
attracted general notice, arid soon every temptation was 
offered to induce him to appear upon the lyrical stage. 
He firmly resisted, till accident effected what persuasion 
could not accomplish. A member of the orchestra of 
the Fermo Theatre happening to fall ill, Signor Giuglini 
took his place at a moment's notice, and shortly after- 
wards rose from the band to the boards in consequence 
of the sudden illness of the principal tenor. His success 
as Jacopo, in " I Due Foscari," at once lifted him above 
the chance of rivalry in the eyes of the Fermo public, 
and after a series of brilliant successes at various 
theatres, he achieved at Milan his last great triumpli 
prior to his London engagement. The Emperor of 
Austria was so highly gratified by his performances in 
the Lombard capital, that he not only nominated him 
chamber-singer of his court, but was desirous to secure 
his services at the Viennese Opera. Unfortunately for 
the public of Vienna, I had already engaged Signor 
Giuglini for three years ; but still the court was deter- 
mined that the Austrian capital should not entirely lose 
so bright an ornament, and accordingly Signor Giuglini 
was at once secured in advance for the year 1860. 

The history of Signor Giuglini's success in London, 



RECEPTION OF GIUGLINI. 407 

since he opened the season at Her Majesty's Theatre, on 
the 14th of April, 1857, is but the record of a constant 
progress in the acquisition of public ftivour. So often 
has the stamp of Italy proved without value to the in- 
habitants of Western Europe, that the genuine triumphs 
achieved there by Signor Giuglini would have been 
utterly worthless in securing the favour of the London 
connoisseurs, had not the correctness of report at once 
been demonstrated by the real merits of the artist. 
The very night of his debut at once established him 
as the chief tenor of the day, and that in the eyes of 
the most fastidious and aristocratic audience that could 
be assembled within the walls of a theatre. ' Everyone 
hung entranced on the impassioned tones of that fault- 
less organ, scarcely knowing whether most to admire the 
bounty of nature, or the proficiency in art. The in- 
habitants of every European metropolis must be aware 
of the high importance attached to the appearance of a 
new tenor in the lyrical horizon. Whatever may be 
the talent of the bass or the baritone vocalist, he still 
lacks that fascinating organ that can assemble multi- 
tudes at will, and bid them listen to the magic of his 
utterance. Among male artists the tenor alone com- 
mands a broad popularity, and when we say that Signor 
Giuglini was at once acknowledged as a tenor unsur- 
passed, if not unrivalled, since the days of Rubini, we say 
that he at once took the highest position attainable by 
vocal talent. 

The mention of Rubini's name in connection with his 
own, doubtless, prompted Signor Giuglini to follow closely 
in the track of that once idolized artist. Arturo, in 
" I Puritani," and Edgardo, in " Lucia di Lammer- 



408 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPEKA. 

moor," were the great parts in which the departed tenor 
hud gained undying laurels, and in these Signor Giuglini 
was, as it were, bound to appear, and to challenge the 
verdict of the British public. The verdict was given 
in bursts of applause at the end of each successive 
display, and those who at first had confined their admira- 
tion to the vocalist -were now surprised at the ex- 
cellence of the actor. It should be added that the per- 
fection of Signor Giuglini's execution was based on a 
thorough knowledge of music, extending even to the art 
of composition. 

The triumph of the new tenor was the event that, 
above all others, distinguished the London Musical 
Season of 1857, during which, "Have you heard 
Giuglini?" and "What do you think of Giuglini?" were 
the questions commonly asked in every fashionable ■ 
assembly. Notwithstanding the quantity of musical 
talent that is brought every season to London as to a 
common centre, every other male vocalist appeared to 
be utterly eclipsed by the new phenomenon, and each 
fresh character in which he was announced was anti- 
cipated with the utmost eagerness. The English public, 
as T have already remarked, is not easily excited : on 
the contrary, it is somewhat inclined to regard with 
suspicion every newly-imported talent; but the ex- 
quisite quality of Signor Giuglini's voice, the perfection 
of his execution, and the truth of his expression, con- 
stituted an attractive force not to be resisted. 

Mademoiselle Spezia, the Leonora of the night, 
achieved also a success, but it was subordinate to that 
of the fascinating tenor. Her grace, her pleasing voice, 
her evidence of intelligence and dramatic feeling, 



REAPPEARANCE OF PICCOLOMINI. 409 

all won their due meed of applause. Excessive nervous 
agitation on the opening night in some degree 
marred her powers. But if she was not allowed, 
like her compeer, to spring at once upon a pedestal 
from which she was to be displaced no more by popular 
award, she was accepted ungrudgingly as a prima donna 
who might maintain a position worthy of a leading can- 
tatrice. Signor Vialetti completed the trio of new 
aspirants, and as a steady, earnest, musician-like, and 
artistic basso profundo, stamped himself at once a 
valuable acquisition to any great lyrical corps. 

So great was the excitement created by the operatic 
Interest of the evening, that the overwrought audience 
could find but little fire of enthusiasm left within them 
for the ballet, although Mademoiselle Pocchini came 
with a great reputation, and was unquestionably one of 
the most charming and fascinating danseuses of the 
day. Her choreographic and mimic powers were both 
such as to ensure a siicces d'eht/iousiasme. But human 
nature has its limits of excitement, and but little 
attention was accorded to the " Esmeralda" [which had 
been considerably curtailed], in which she danced and 
acted; being supported moreover by the wondrous suc- 
cessor and extraordinary " double" of Monsieur Perrot, 
the pantomiraist. Monsieur Massot, whose likeness to his 
predecessor was so extraordinary that many took him 
for Perrot himself. Poor Pocchini was greatly displeased 
with her reception afterwards, but was calm in her 
manner to me. 

No less an event, in the estimation of the frequenters 
of Her Majesty's Theatre, was the reappearance of 
Mademoiselle Piccolomini. After " La Favorita" came 



410 EEMINISCKNCES OP THE OPERA. 

the " favourite" — the favourite of the public — the pet, 
spoiled child. No welcome could be more enthusiastic 
as the sparkling little lady stepped once more upon the 
boards as the " Figlia del Keggiraento." A house 
crowded with all that was fashionable, literary, and 
artistic in London, seemed to offer in chorus from their 
very hearts a " Happy welcome back" to their darling. 
As an operatic artist she could scarcely be said to 
have improved. Few paused to speak of her singing 
critically : her acting Avas almost exclusively the 
theme of laudation. She was beloved; that was to 
be quite sufiScient; and woe betide those who ven- 
tured to judge her otherwise than as *' our special 
pet," much less judge her severely. Was she not 
there again, with her sprightly naivete^ her pretty 
audacity, her verve, her natural feeling, her powers of 
fascination — in other words, with all that indescribable 
charm, with that indefinable "je ne sais quoi" which 
gave her a power over all hearts. She was accepted once 
more as the pet of the season, and the audience were in 
transports of delight. 

Signer Bottardi, who had come with a fair repute, 
appeared as the Tonio. Must the verdict on the occa- 
sion be noted? " The less said the better!" 

But the expectations raised relative to Mademoiselle 
Piccolomini's performances were only moderately satisfied 
by her appearance in Donizetti's charming little 
comic opera. It was useless disguising the fact,' but it 
was in the " Traviata'' that the public most desired 
to see the favourite of last season, and the " Traviata" 
they would have. Preached against, talked against, 
written against by the most powerful pens of the. day, 
the '* Traviata" nevertheless kept the field triumphantly. 



EAGE FOR THE " TRAVIATA." 411 

Still more than before was the " Traviata" " the 
rage."* 

So Mademoiselle Piccolomini reappeared in the 
" Traviata," and the announcement of this opera at- 
tracted one of the most over-crowded audiences of the 
season. She sang, she acted again with her old spirit, 
her old feeling. The witchery of the above-quoted ^'jene 
sais quoi" was flung over her audiences as before ; and, 
under the influence of her spell, the enthusiasm rose as 
high as ever. Signer Giuglini, as Alfrede, reached an 
even higher pitch of favour than on the night of his 
debut. With such united attractions as the little privia 
donna and the " sympathetic" new tenor, with audiences 
filling the walls of Her Majesty's Theatre, the " Traviata" 
and Piccolomini were destined to rule supreme through- 
out the season. 

In the " Puritani," selected for the debut of Made- 
moiselle Ortolani (whose appearance, long announced, 
was looked forward to with considerable interest), 
Signor Giuglini was again fated to wrest the palm of 
merit from the hands of the lady. More and more 

* No greater proof of this extraordinary engouement can be found 
than in the fact that the " Traviata" was given as the most powerful 
attraction of the day, in a concert form, at Exeter Hall, the great 
asylum of sacred music, the resort for amusement of those from whom 
the very name of a theatre calls forth the heartiest "Anathema 
Maranatha !" the very temple of Puritanical zeal ! An excellent " skit" 
upon this performance, by the late Mr. Albert Smith, was privately 
circulated at the time. Some of the lines ran thus — 

" The chance won't come again to us, the world's regenerators, 
To hear improper music, and not in the vile theayters. 
Oh ! is it not a blessed thing, that chosen ones, like us, 
Can hear it at our sainted hall, without improper fuss ? 
The Times condemned its playhouse form ; but bless our happy land* 
Which makes sin in the Haymarket religion in the Strand." 



412 REMINISCENCES OE THE OPERA. 

applauded at each new representation, and firmly estab- 
lished as one of the popular favourites of the day, he 
even surpassed all his previous efforts as the Arturo 
of the night. His shortcomings as an actor, his 
seeming awkwardness of manner, and his somewhat 
ungraceful gait, were overlooked and even forgotten, 
in the presence of the feeling, fervour, and dramatic 
expression of his singing. Nervous and trembling, 
Mademoiselle Ortolani had but little chance of sharing 
the honours of the evening with the favourite tenor, 
although she was an admirable vocalist of (what was 
still at that time called) the " Persiani school." In the 
management of her voice, not a powerful one, she dis- 
played a mastery which concealed physical deficiencies, 
together with a certain grace and facility of vocalization, 
which, however, tended occasionally to exuberance. 
Tall, striking in personal appearance, and agreeable in 
manner, she had many requisites for commanding 
attention and sympathy. On subsequent evenings, 
when Mademoiselle Ortolani had shaken off the 
nervousness of her debut, she obtained higher favour 
with the frequenters of Her Majesty's Theatre, so 
that she was always seen and heard with satis- 
faction. Her industry was great, and she was cer- 
tainly a singer entitled to achieve eminence, if eminence 
could be obtained by sheer study. The zeal she dis- 
played later in the season in studying the part of 
Elvira, in " Don Giovanni," showed the disposition of a 
true artist. 

Thus, among the prime donne of the season, " the 
pet" remained still " the pet" to the end. Mademoiselle 
Piccolomini was decidedly and incontestably the attrac- 
tion of the year 1857- Never was a more striking 



PICCOLOMINl'S "LUCIA." 413 

proof of this unabated favouritism given than on her 
first appearance in the " Lucia di Lammermoor," before 
a house crowded to an unusual extent. Every new part 
in which " the pet" was announced to appear was sure 
to excite the liveliest interest. It is useless to seek 
reasons to account for this wonderful popularity of the 
" little lady." Her popularity must be received as 
an " accomplished fact," and remain unscrutinized, as 
it was unquestioned. Her Liicia was a triumphant 
success: the enthusiasm of the public was roused to 
fever pitch; the demonstrations showered down on her 
in plaudits and cheers as well as bouquets rivalled those 
of the great Lind furore of years now gone by. In a 
musical point of view her most ardent admirers could 
scarcely deny that her singing was far from being " up 
to the mark ;" or at least, that it left much to be desired. 
But defective as her execution may have been, there 
was an undeniable charm of expression, feeling, and 
passion in every phrase she warbled that lulled her 
hearers into a contented forgetfulness of what she was 
not, and carried them away spell-bound into an admiring 
appreciation of what she was. " Call" responded to 
"call;" bouquets flew across the house in quick 
succession; and at the end "the darling pet" was 
again summoned back long after she had left the 
scene, and was conducted on to the stage to re- 
ceive a parting recognition from her admirers (blush- 
ing and laughing in naz/ embarrassment) in her private 
dress. Signer Giuglini, too, on this occasion mounted 
still higher in popular esteem by his Edgardo. About 
his singing there could be no possible difference of 
opinion. Since the days of Kubini such a remarkable 
combination of lovely voice with " school" and expres- 



414 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

sion had not been known. The famous " male- 
dizione" [which had sufficed to make the fortune of 
a tenore robusto like Fraschini], being delivered with 
profound emotion, took the audience by storm. It 
was with his voice, in fine, that Giuglini stamped him- 
self a superior artist, and became one of the great tenors 
of operatic fame in Europe. 

As it has been already stated that Mademoiselle 
Piccolomini remained during the rest of the season the 
greatest and most remunerative " card," it may be as 
well at once to give a brief resume of the new parts in 
which she exercised this extraordinary influence. As 
the Zerlina of " Don Giovanni" she fully maintained 
(she could not increase) her hold over the hearts of 
the thousands and tens of thousands of Londoners. In 
the Adina of the " Elisir," where her vocal powers were 
perhaps more severely tried than in any previous opera, 
she again earned that triumph which, her peculiar gifts 
always seem to have assured to her. In the final duo of 
Donizetti's " Martyri," first given as a hors d'ceuvre on 
the ambitious little lady's benefit, and frequently re- 
peated during the remaining season as well as in 
various " extra performances," she again fascinated 
her audience. And so Marietta Piccolomini reigned 
as undisputed queen to the close of the season of 
1857.* 

Under the circumstances of the general worship of 

* It was during this season that arrangements were made for the 
transfer of Mademoiselle Piooolomini's services to the United States ; 
and it may be here noted, that her success in America was as gi-eat as 
that which had attended her career both in her own country and in 
England. After many negociations she set sail for New York, under 
the conduct of an American director, as arranger and manager of the 
speculation. 



PROGRESS OP MADEMOISELLE SPEZIA. 415 

the little idol of the day, it can be no wonder that other 
goddesses of song should have felt aggrieved that such 
slight homage was comparatively paid at their altars, 
and that almost all the incense was burned before one 
alone. No wonder, for instance, that Mademoiselle Spezia, 
clever and sensible young woman as she was, felt herself 
Avell-nigh (what is called in professional terms) 
" shelved." Other engagements also had to be fulfilled. 
Mademoiselle Alboni had to make her welcome re- 
appearance; and she in her turn was greeted by a dis- 
criminating audience as the Rosina of the " Barbiere," 
although offering, in her own peculiar perfections, a 
signal contrast with the " pet" of the hour — it might be 
because she did so. As a highly elaborate example of 
pure Italian singing, Alboni's style stood Jiigh in public 
estimation. Nay, more, she was perhaps unique. On 
the other hand, the heavy quietude of her manner 
forbade fascination, leaving the vocal faculty to work its 
effect unaided. How different from the attraction offered 
by the spirituel qualities -which enabled Piccolomini to 
call down the plaudits of the house ! 

Meanwhile, the claims of such a prima donna assoluta 
as Mademoiselle Spezia were not to be overlooked. 
She reappeared in the " Trovatore" (an opera which 
was year by year gaining upon the sympathies of 
English audiences), having as yet only been able 
to obtain a favourable hearing in the " Favorita." In 
her new character she made a still bolder stride to place 
herself on a high pedestal of reputation. Her dramatic 
expression and her occasional bursts of " vocal eloquence" 
called down testimonies of appreciation from the entire 
house. But again, there was tire great object of attrac- 
tion, Signer Giuglini, by her side, seizing as his right 



416 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPEKA. 

the lion's share of interest — carrying off the loudest 
plaudits — forming the theme of every tongue. Much 
curiosity was excited also by the Azucena of Madame 
Alboni, a meritorious performance ; in a musical sense, 
an admirable one. 

In "Nino" ("Nabucco") Mademoiselle Spezia made a 
decided advance in public estimation. She was univer- 
sally admitted to be a genuine artist; her dramatic 
energy was acknowledged. Nevertheless, the title of 
" favourite" was not to be won. Indeed, the object 
of interest in the " Nino" was Signer Corsi, who made his 
debut on the occasion. This celebrated singer had ac- 
quired so high a reputation in Italy as the legitimate 
successor to Georgio Eonconi, in the execution of lyrical 
parts of great dramatic power, that the liveliest curiosity 
was excited by his first appearance. The correctness of 
his vocalization, the management of his not very power- 
ful voice, and his great intelligence, were duly ac- 
knowledged; Signer Corsi was received at once as a 
well-trained and conscientious singer, and as an acquisi- 
tion to a company already overflowing with excellence. 
But his far-established fame as an actor was not fully 
recognised here. Was it that in England we had been 
accustomed to more powerful delineations? Be this as 
it may, although accepted as a singer of ability, Signer 
Corsi failed to establish his claim to public favour by 
any great histrionic ability. 

One of the most marked events of the season came as 
an illustration of the adage that, in excellence, " the old 
is ever new." " Don Giovanni" was given with all the 
advantages of "cast" which a strong company could 
furnish. Under almost all circumstances, the chef- 
d'ceuvre of Mozart may be play e4 as a good card by any 



KEYIVAL OF "DON GIOVANNI." 417 

management in London with the assurance of " win- 
ning," at least for two or three nights. But on this 
occasion, not only had every available artist of note been 
judiciously selected for each part — not only had the 
services of all the principals not otherwise engaged (with 
the single exception of Madame Alboni), and of every 
second singer of ability, been enlisted in the good work, 
and unusual strength added to the choruses — not only 
bad many pieces of music, generally omitted hitherto, 
been rigorously restored — but the assistance of an able 
dramatist was obtained to remodel the "business" of the 
scene, and render the action of the drama more compre- 
hensible, and better " motived" than had been generally 
the case ; new and splendid scenery had also been painted 
for this important revival. Under these auspices 
" Don Giovanni" commanded not only its due and cus- 
tomary tribute of success, but achieved once more a tri- 
umph which caused its performances to be reckoned 
among the important features of the season. Perhaps 
of all the accomplished artists employed in the rendering 
of this great opera it was still the " pet," Mademoiselle 
Piccolomini, who carried off the fairest laurels in Zer- 
lina. Once more the charming actress " held her own" 
among the eminent singers around her. Mademoiselle 
Spezia as the Donna Anna showed herself both vocally 
and dramatically a superior artist. Her tragic decla- 
matory powers, joined to her superb appearance, could 
not but meet their just appreciation. The music of 
Elvira was creditably sung by Mademoiselle Ortolani. 
Strange as was the music of Mozart to the Italian can- 
tatrice, its execution manifested the careful study and 
earnest zeal of the true artist. But the "pet" carried 
all before her. Beneventano worked earnestly, if not 

E £ 



418 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

satisfactorily, as the Don. Beletti showed himself, of 
course, as an admirable artist in Leporello. The music 
of Don Ottdvio was warbled by the beautiful voice of 
Giuglini as few had heard it warbled before.* The fine 
deep bass of Vialetti resounded effectively as the Com- 
mendatore ; and Corsi sensibly contributed to the general 
ensemble of this great cast by his acting and singing in 
the minor part of Masetto. In the ballroom scene the 
principal executants of the ballet department were also 
made available in the dances and groupings. 

" Don Giovanni" had been intended from the first to 
be produced as one of the great "cards" of the 
season; and never had a trump been more success- 
fully played. " Don Giovanni," with such unwonted 
attractions, " drew" enormously for several nights. 
Again and again was the grand chorus, " La Liberty," 
encored amidst the loudest acclamations. Again and 
again was each artist greeted with the most hearty en- 
thusiasm. Thus was the mighty influence of the 
grandest of operas made to testify to the undying genius 
of Mozart. It is scarcely possible that any new opera, 
whatever its distinction, could have equalled the attrac- 
tion which the old chef-d'ceuvre now widely exercised in 
virtue of its complete, well-suited equipment. 

Perhaps, under the circumstances forced by the 
current of events upon the management. Mademoiselle 
Ortolani had the most reason to complain of the want 
of due opportunities for the exhibition of her artistic 
acquirements. She sang only once again in the last 
act of "II Pirata," for the benefit of Signor Giuglini. 
But she could scarcely feel dissatisfied when even so 

* The noble air " Dalla sua Pace" was restored by Giuglini on this 
occasion, and he made a marked sensation by his tender, expressive 
delivery of it. 



SIGNOR BELART. 419 

powerful a rival as Mademoiselle Alboni could scarcely 
elbow her way through the crowd of artists to obtain a 
position before the " footlights." This latter lady, how- 
ever, in a performance of " La Sonnambula," afforded 
an occasion for the production of another new tenor as 
her Elvino. Signer B^lart had this opportunity of 
making a good first impression. This Spanish singer 
was an excellent artist, with a voice, which, though not 
powerful, was of pleasing quality, and an unexception- 
able style, combined with true dramatic feeling. It 
was impossible for him to be otherwise than favourably 
received by any audience of real intelligence. But wide 
as the arena of an opera stage may appear, the space on 
it is limited for distinction. Giuglini was just then the 
tenor " in possession," who strode, unshaken and un- 
shakeable, from wing to wing, permitting no other to 
figure by his side. Where was poor meritorious little 
Signer Belart to plant his foot ? He balanced himself for 
a night or two, then tottered, and shortly afterwards 
disappeared for the season. 

On the supplemental nights, given at reduced prices, 
Signor Giuglini having departed for other engagements 
Signer Belart was left sole possessor of the parts of 
'■^ primo tenore" and acquitted himself to general 
satisfaction. 

It must not be supposed, however, that during these 
operatic varieties the other branch of the establishment 
had been neglected. Dance had been allowed to hold 
her place by the side of her charming sister, Music. 
Indeed, so far from any neglect being shown to the 
ballet, more than usual exertions had been made 
during the season of 1857 to invest it with splen- 
dour and power of attraction. The celebrated 

E £ 2 



420 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Spanisli danseuse, Madame Perea Neha, then in the 
zenith of her powers and her celebrity, appeared in the 
exercise of all her fascinations in a new, semi-mytholo- 
gical, semi-romantic ballet, called "Acalista." The 
greatest pains had been bestowed upon this production 
— exquisite scenery, dresses "rich and rare," and the 
highest efforts of art in the choreographic arrangements. 
The piquante Spaniard pleased ; and "Acalista" worked 
its way to the profit of the theatre as well as to the 
credit of Monsieur Massot, its composer. A new diver- 
tissement, called " Les Roses," danced by some of the 
many principal "ladies," diversified pleasantly the 
longer evenings of song. But the great piece, de re- 
sistance in the ballet department came in the form of 
one of those grand pantomimic displays which still 
lingered on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre, 
" Marco Spada," a grand ballet, founded on subjects in 
Scribe's opera of the same name, and familiar in its 
story to London play-goers from a similar drama ad- 
mirably played and " got up" at the Princess's Theatre, 
introduced the favourite Rosati on her reappearance 
on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre. This produc- 
tion, in which the charming danseuse had won " golden 
opinions" at the Academie Imperiale in Paris, was 
necessarily curtailed to court the languid suffrages of 
London loungers. Perhaps even in its diminished 
glories it was yet " a world too long," although a more 
striking, interesting, and better-executed work of the 
kind had never been placed before the frequenters of 
Her Majesty's Theatre. Rich in appointments, gorgeous 
ill scenery, and commanding a choice corps de ballet 
with the fascinating Rosati at its head, it ought to have 
commanded a far more brilliant succes d' argent than fell 



"MARCO SPADA." 421 

to its lot. If applause and showered bouquets could 
have been converted into gold, Mademoiselle Kosati, in 
" Marco Spada," would have proved another Danae.* 
The ballet arrangements were completed at the eleventh 
hour by the welcome return of one of the great favourites 
of the day — Mademoiselle Marie Taglioni, with the 
popular dancer, Monsieur Charles. Their detention at 
Berlin by order of the Prussian court, for some 
festivities of the hour, had occasioned serious disap- 
pointment, for I had hoped to have produced this 
ballet early in the year. 

The operatic performances with Madame Alboni, 
Mesdemoiselles Piccolomini, Spezia, and Ortolani, 
comprised the revival of " Le Nozze di Figaro," 
with the three latter ladies. The popularity of 
these representations gave occasion to their being re- 
sumed for a brief period of time in the month of 
September. 

* The preparation of " Marco Spada" afforded a striking illustration 
of the difficulties with which a manager has, on many sides, to contend. 
Mademoiselle Katrine, an aspiring danseuse, had been taken into espe- 
cial favour and protection (artistically speaking) by an influential 
nobleman. Notes and letters were showered continually upon me, 
urging preferences to be shown to Mademoiselle Katrine in this pas 
or in that, "here, there, and everywhere." The lady had been fa- 
voured with a special divertissement, and was allowed to dance the 
" Aurore." On the arrival of MademoiselleHosati and the production of 
the new ballet, however, an anticipated storm burst over the manage- 
ment. His lordship demanded an especial position for Mademoiselle 
Katrine in " Marco Spada." The Prima Ballerina Assoluta contested 
stoutly the young lady's right to any such exceptional standing. I was 
anxious to conciliate the conflicting interests, but worked in vain. For- 
tunately the nobleman arrived in town just previously to the production 
of the ballet, threw his weight into the scale of favouritism, and thus 
took the responsibility of decision on himself. The "Assoluta" was 
compelled to succumb, and Mademoiselle Katrine received the honour* 
of a, pas de deux in each separate tableau. 



422 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

Although a winter campaign was comnienced late in 
the month of December (an innovation and experiment 
about which more will be said hereafter), the series of 
operatic performances at Her Majesty's Theatre may be 
considered to have thus terminated. The principal 
successes of the season had been unquestionably due to 
Mademoiselle Piccolomini and Signor Giuglini: both 
had worked zealously and unremittingly to secure the 
fortunes of the theatre. The spirit and ardour of the 
" pet" never for one moment flagged. Yet she must 
have had much with which to contend, both within and 
without the walls of the theatre. The Countess Picco- 
lomini, her mother, although born in a higher, sphere, was, 
in all her connexion with the stage, the veritable type of 
the " mere d'artiste." Now she discouraged her 
sprightly and buoyant daughter by constant grumblings, 
predicting that every new part she undertook would be 
s.^'' fiasco." Now she harassed the management with . 
complaints that her daughter was being worn to death by 
her exertions and over-fatigue. " Are you really so much 
fatigued ?" I once asked the " pet," in sympathy. 
"Well! they tell me I am," answered the young lady, 
with a joyous and ringing laugh. These perpetual 
lamentations were only to be met by pleasantry. " Of 
course your daughter must be completely worn out," 
would be the playful answer; "she is getting so 
miserably thin" (she was as plump as a little partridge) ; 
" she is actually bent double" (she was bounding about 
the stage like a young fawn). " She sang the Traviata 
last night better than ever; whereas, when she first 
came, she sang with effort, forcing her voice. Of course, 
all that must be accounted for by excessive fatigue." But 
Marietta was never happy except when she found her* 



CLOSE OF 1857.. 423 

self upon the stage. " I have a hard task between you," 
I said to her, good-humouredly ; "your mother com- 
plains that I make you sing too much, and you that I 
make you sing too little." 

As for Giuglini, he showed himself to the last full of 
zeal and energy.* 

The theatre was closed ; and a portion of the artists 
had started on that provincial series of entertainments 
which, for some years past, had formed an essential por- 
tion of operatic speculation. The end of the season had 
been gained with much success, and without any serious 
drawback from disastrous accident. When it is consi- 
dered how much, in all theatrical affairs, the most im- 
portant contingencies hang upon the slenderest threads, 
there was in negative success alone strong reason for con- 
gratulation. The brilliant series of representations 
given had fully maintained the position of the theatre. 
The credit of the vast establishment, in which Lord 
Ward and I were now jointly interested, had been not 
only confirmed but increased. Every liability had been 
met, but the management had had, nevertheless, to 
contend with more than ordinary obstacles. The 
year had been one of extraordinary commercial 
panic; and even the so-called "gaieties" of the 
London season had been overshadowed by the pre- 



* At this period the principal passion of the great tenor was for 
making and letting off fireworks ! It was one of those passions which 
almost amounted to a mania, and engrossed all his thoughts when not 
occupied with his art. He had come to be a considerable adept in fire- 
work-making, and his enthusiasm in exhibiting his beautiful works, and 
his pride in success and applause apparently equalled that which he 
felt in the pursuit of his musical career. A pantomimic expression of 
" a Catherine wheel," from a friend in aside-box, would make him sing 
on the stage with redoubled spirit. 



424 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

vailing gloom. Much as the reputation of the theatre 
had been re-established, it was still necessary to look to 
future seasons to place. the establishment on a wholly- 
solid basis. The long-cherished project of an " associa- 
tion" to this effect was still in abeyance ; and although 
every preparation for duly launching the scheme had 
been made, all progress was impeded by the long-pro- 
tracted course of the appeal in the House of Lords, in 
the suit of which mention has so frequently been made. 
It was impossible to undertake plans relative to a pro- 
perty the title to which, although not, perhaps, in serious 
danger, was still in dispute. In such a juncture, it was 
indispensable for me to come to a more favourable posi- 
tion with my present landlord and creditor. Lord Ward. 
The rebuilding of Covent Garden, to be opened the next 
season with all the attractive prestige of novelty, threat- 
ened a rivalry even more formidable than before. Pro- 
positions made by me to my noble creditor, although 
hampered with the condition that they should be made 
dependent on the issue of the litigation in the House of 
Lords, were acceded to as being not only reasonable but 
just. These arrangements once completed, I was able to 
look forward with some security to my next campaign, the 
preparations for which were -imminent. Armed by Lord 
Ward's assurances of constant good-will and interest 
in my fortunes, and convinced that there was no rea- 
sonable doubt of the ultimate success of the pending 
suit, I again took breath with confidence and hope. 

The autumn tour of the artists, which had generally 
proved so highly remunerative to the finances of the 
establishment, resulted, on account of the damp thrown 
upon all enterprise by the commercial panic of the day, 
in a heavy loss to the treasury. Nor was the expedi- 



jullien's concerts. 425 

tion taken, upon leaving the English provinces, to Hol- 
land and the north of Germany more successful. On 
the Continent also the general depression consequent 
upon the state of affairs was most cruelly injurious to 
all artistic speculation, and the company returned to 
England. 

More successful were the concerts given at Her Ma- 
jesty's Theatre, under the conduct of Monsieur JuUien, 
during the late autumn months. These highly popular 
entertainments were heightened by the engagement of 
Mademoiselle Jetty Treffz, one of the most favourite 
bullad-singers of her time, whose pleasant style and 
sprightliness were always sure to attract. A due share 
of the success of these concerts must, however, be 
awarded to their clever and eccentric conductor. Mon- 
sieur Jullien's faith in his own genius was in itself a 
warrant for confident expectations. In his own eyes 
his productions were as the " music of the spheres," 
and to impress himself on the public as a genius be- 
yond mortality was thus a comparatively easy task. 
This self-cjnfidence, joined to considerable ability and 
great spirit, made Monsieur Jullien one of the musical 
heroes of his time. In many I'espects, also, his concerts 
were fully entitled to their powers of attraction. He 
had the tact to combine sterling and " legitimate" music 
by the greatest masters, with his OAvn sparkling and 
catching but noisy and " flashy" compositions. Of his 
love of noise I recollect a singular instance. The 
French drummers were rehearsed for his new Indian 
Quadrille. The effect was deafening. " I can't hear 
you !" he shouted. They must have been heard miles 
off! Their efforts were redoubled. " I can't hear you 
now !" he shouted again. Their beat was like thunder. 



426 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

On they went more loudly. "I can't hear you yet!" 
he shouted a third time. No amount of noise could, 
on certain occasions, satisfy the impatient maestro. 

A new experiment was also made before the close of 
the year, by the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre for 
a winter series of " extra performances" at reduced 
prices; and, thanks to the music-loving spirit which 
had for many years possessed the hearts of the general 
public, to the exclusion of mere exclusiveness, the ex- 
periment achieved a result which went even beyond 
anticipations. " Students of black-letter law," wrote 
one humorous pen on the occasion, " who recollect those 
eccentric tenures by virtue of which the occupant of an 
estate was bound to provide his liege lord with a rose in 
December and a snowball in July, might naturally place 
the presentation of an opera-box in the Christmas week 
on the list of rents impossible to be paid." Yet the seem- 
ing impossibility was made a pleasant reality. The de- 
mand for places in all parts of the theatre for every night 
was almost unprecedented; and when the " Trovatore," 
with Griuglini and Mademoiselle Spezia, was presented 
to the public on Tuesday, the 29 th December, the 
crowd was not only immense, but most enthusiastic in 
its appreciation of the artists. On this occasion Signor 
Aldighieri, the new barytone, secured himself a favour- 
able position in public esteem. Was not the " pet" 
there also to fascinate the throngs which would flock to 
the naughty " Traviata," with all the more seeming 
gusto because the fruit they coveted was said to be 
forbidden? and did not she insist on drawing crowds 
also in her Lucia, with such powerful aid as Giuglini? 
and, what was a still more attractive experiment, was 
not Balfe's ever-popular opera " The Bohemian Girl" 



THE "BOHEMIAN GIRL." 427 

presented in an Italian form as " La Zingara," to 
give her the opportunity of appearing in one of the 
favourite characters of the most popular opera of a 
genuine English public? Prosperous as was the expe- 
riment of a winter season generally, perhaps the 
greatest success attended this last venture. 

During this period also, a series of " Festival Perform- 
ances" were given at Her Majesty's Theatre, in honour of 
the wedding of Her Royal Highness the Princess Eoyal 
with the Crown Prince of Prussia. All the principal 
English theatres in London contributed their best in 
pieces and in actors, on the various nights, to the enter- 
tainment of the Court and its Koyal guests. For its 
own share Her Majesty's Theatre offered " La Son- 
nambula," with Mademoiselle Piccolomini (for the first 
time in that character), Giuglini, and Beletti. 

Through difficulties and impending dangers the for- 
tunes of the theatre thus rolled on, seeming to gather 
strength from success and popularity. There may be 
much " seeming," however, among the hidden arcana of 
even the most patent truth. 



428 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

Director's Visit to Vienna, in view of the Season of 1858 — Engagement 
of Mdlle. Tietjens for Her Majesty's Theatre— Prince Metternich 
— His Kindness towards me — His Love of Music — Harassing 
Uncertainties as to the Eesult of the Appeal to the House of 
Lords —T Sudden Change in the Conduct of Lord Ward — His 
Peremptory Demands of Payment of Eent — I give up my last 
Eights over the Property to Appease my Creditor — Opening Night 
of the Season, April 13th — Giuglini and Tietjens in the " Hugue- 
nots" — A Brilliant Success — The "Trovatore," with Tietjens and 
Alboni— Piceolomini still commands the Favour of the Public — 
" La Serva Padrona" brought out for Her — Borne down by suc- 
cessive Eeverses, I resolve on Eetiring from my Arduous and now 
Dependent Position — Possession of the Theatre given up to Lord 
Ward's Agent, 1858 — Consolation afforded me by the Eetro- 
spect of my Career and the Attachment of my Friends. 

Confiding in the arrangements agreed upon between 
me and my noble landlord, I was employed early in 
the year of 1858 in seeking to strengthen my already 
powerful company ; and towards the close of February 
I started, vici Paris, on my road to the Austrian capital. 
Even when I had been advised by a friend to conclude 
an engagement with Madame Csillag, then singing at 
Vienna, 1 had another prize in view, to be won from 
the Austrian capital, upon the acquisition of which I 
placed the highest value. In Mademoiselle Tietjens, 
a singer of the operatic stage of Vienna, I saw the 
chances of a greater success. Already during my 
artistic excursion of the previous year I had heard 



MADEMOISELLE TIETJENS. 429 

and appreciated Mademoiselle Tietjens ; but her engage- 
ment at that period with the direction of the " Karnther 
Tlior" Theatre seemed to preclude all immediate hope of 
obtaining this attractive cantatrice for Her Majesty's 
Theatre. 

Circumstances however, connected with the manage- 
ment and fortunes of the Imperial Opera at Vienna, had 
again raised my hopes of attaining this object during a 
portion at least of the season of 1858. Negociations had 
been successfully opened by the intermediation of a friend 
in Vienna, a man of great ability; and early in the year 
1858 the necessary arrangements were nearly completed. 
Much secresy had been observed in the affair. Not only 
was precaution rendered necessary by the actual circum- 
stances of the "Karnther Thor" Theatre at Vienna, but, 
as the agency of the rival London establishment would 
have been actively at work to lure away the attractive 
singer to the Italian Opera at Covent Garden, " mys- 
tery and discretion," as well as activity, were essential 
elements in the negociation. In fact, the affair did not 
become what the Germans call a " public secret" until 
the engagement was signed by both parties. 

At Vienna, during my journey in the spring of 1858, 
I was enabled to assure myself that in all probability 
my hopes of a great success in London with my new 
acquisition would be realized. I heard Mademoiselle 
Tietjens sing once more, with newly-added advantages, 
and was delighted. Roger, the celebrated French tenor, 
sang with her, and showed himself, as indeed he had 
always been, a consummate actor. But his voice was 
nearly gone, and, by the side of the then fresh and 
powerful organ of Tietjens, appeared feeble. All the 
applause was for the favourite; and I felt that in com* 



430 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

pleting the engagement of Mademoiselle Tietjens, I had 
probably secured to myself another hold upon my Eng- 
lish supporters. My Vienna visit appeared an augury of 
good fortune. 

While in Vienna I was fortunate enough to renew the 
acquaintance and obtain the friendly regard of the cele- 
brated Prince Metternich, who was lavish in his attentions. 
The old statesman had a passion for music, and said of 
himself that his musical organization was so delicate that 
he could detect the slightest wrong note in the fullest 
orchestra. He had frequently borne a part in concerted 
music himself, and was even competent to " conduct." 
The musical education in Germany in his early days was 
such that a respectable orchestra could easily be impro- 
vis^, he said, in any country house; and in some of the 
chateaux in the neighbourhood of Vienna he had known 
of parties which had devoted eighteen out of twenty- 
four hours to musical practice. Music, he declared, in all 
the difficult moments of his career, had been his constant 
solace. In this, as in other respects, he reminded me 
of Count Nesselrode, who had said that the love he 
cherished for music and flowers had constituted the chief 
sustaining force of his latter days. 

Prince Metternich had seen much of Eossini in past 
years, and had refreshed the composer's invention by 
communicating to him various German national melo- 
dies. At the Congress of Verona (he narrated), Eos- 
sini, who was then composing his " Semiramide," would 
come and play portions of his latest themes to a select 
party of the statesmen there assembled. " I feel still 
young," the aged diplomatist said, " at eighty-six. But 
the defect in my hearing is now a sad drawback to me, 
particularly as, in listening to music, certain notes now 
always strike me as false." 



PRINCE METTEBNICH. 431 

On leaving Vienna I received the following charac- 
teristic letter from the venerable Prince, dated, by a 
singular coincidence, on the very day on which, some 
years before, he had been obliged to quit Vienna : — 

" Le 13 Mwrs, 1858. 

" Je vous remercie, mon cher Lumley, de voire atten- 
tion de me /aire prevenir de voire depart. J'eusse e'te 
charmS de vous voir encore chez-moi, et c'esi avec peine 
que fy rSnonce. Si vous passez par Dresde, tachez de 
trouver un moment pour aller voir mon jils.* J'espere 
vous revoir une autre fois. VH mon age, je vous conseille 
toutefois de ne pas trap en retarder V occasion. JRecevez 
mes hommages. 

" Metteenich." 

Two other kind friends, who made my sojourn in 
Vienna most agreeable, were Prince Esterhazy (whose 
hospitable hotel was always open to me), and the bril- 
liant and beautiful Countess Potoska (nee Sapieha). 

After a successful tour, brightened by the pleasantest 
hopes, I was once more in London to superintend the 
preparations for the opening of ray important campaign. 
Important in itself, important for the future, was this 
campaign in every way destined to be. Although 
harassed by the uncertain state of my affairs with Lord 
Ward, and naturally anxious as to the success of a 
season which included the prospect of a revived rivalry 
with the New Opera-house in Covent Garden, it was 
with undiminished energy that I once more set myself to 
my task of organization. 

The season did not begin this year until after Easter, 
and thus, much more than usual depended upon the 
result of the opening night. To this important " first 

* Now Ambassador to the Court of the Tuileries. 



432 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

night," therefore, my attention was peculiarly di- 
rected. The production of the " Huguenots," with the 
new and much-anticipated prima donna and the suc- 
cessful tenor of the previous year, Giuglini, was an 
event upon which the whole reputation of the theatre 
for the ensuing season, and the consequent fortunes of 
the establishment, might possibly depend. Every nerve, 
then, was strained to make this production as effective 
as possible; every effect that could be commanded by 
scenery, dresses, and general appointments had been 
studied and executed with the minutest care; every 
artist engaged seemed io feel how much depended on 
this all-important first night, and each rivalled each in 
zeal. Even the last rehearsals became events of in- 
terest and excitement; and the curiosity of the privileged 
few who could obtain admission on these special occasions 
was stretched to the highest pitch. To none were fame 
and fortune more at stake than to Mademoiselle Tietjens. 
How much she felt this critical position was evidenced 
by her bursts of artistic animation and excitement at 
the rehearsals. As her powerful voice rang through 
the theatre, and excited the plaudits of all present, so 
the latent fire of Giuglini became kindled in its turn, 
and, one artist vieing with the other in power and 
passion of musical declamation, each rehearsal became a 
brilliant performance.* None appeared for one moment 
to doubt of the great success of the new prima donna. 

* Indeed, so strongly were both artists and connoisseurs impressed 
with the merits of Mademoiselle Tietjens, that fears were expressed lest 
she should utterly " swamp" the favourite tenor. " He will never be 
able to come up to that powerful voice in the last act," said one. " She 
will utterly double up Giuglini," cried another. I foresaw that their 
fears were idle, and the result proved I was right, for by his persona- 
tio» ot Baoul Giuglini raised himself to the pinnacle of his profession. 



DECISION IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS. ' 433 

The sun of fortune seemed thus to smile with pleasant 

augury upon the future destinies of the theatre ; but 

unfortunately, the proverb " All is not gold that 

glitters" was fated to be true in this instance. Placid 

though the surface was, doubt, anxiety, distrust, and 

trouble were beneath it. These could not be seen, or 

known, or even surmised by the mere gazers upon the 

outer side of things, which continued to present a bright 

aspect. In order to explain the actual position of the 

establishment however, it will be necessary to revert, 

as briefly as may be, to the complicated tangle of legal 

affairs which enveloped the management at this period, 

and to indicate the painful circurastances which were 

converging unseen towards the sombre denouement of 

this history. 

All the prudent calculations which I had made for the 
final settlement of affairs, by the formation of the pro- 
posed association (so often mentioned), had been fatally 
disturbed by the unexpected amount of delay in the de- 
livery of the judgment in that protracted^ suit before 
the House of Lords — a delay which prevented, also, the 
fulfilment of the conditional understanding last entered 
into with my noble creditor. The judgment was even- 
tually given on the 19th April (a few days after the 
og^ning of the theatre), and was altogether favourable 
to my interests. But in the meanwhile, although for 
some time past no doubt had been entertained of the 
favourable result of the decision in, the House of Lords, 
and everything was in forward progress for the execu- 
tion of the plan which was to conciliate all interests, the 
nobleman in whose hands I had placed myself with 
thorough confidence, had suddenly, and without any 
apparent reason, changed his character — ^passing from 

F r 



434 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

the well-wisher and the forbearing friend to the harsh 
and exacting creditor. At the very moment when all 
my previous difficulties seemed to be about to melt 
away, I was informed by Lord Ward's solicitor that 
three quarters' rent (one quarter in advance) were due 
to his lordship, and that if these were not immediately 
paid, I must be prepared to give up possession of the 
theatre into his lordship's hands. Failing these condi- 
tions, legal proceedings, he said, would be' at once 
resorted to. The arrangement last made between the 
parties — viz., that the payment of a year's rent should 
be postponed — was thus all at once ignored. Lord 
Ward's advisers seemed, by a sudden turn of opinion, 
to consider that the spirit of the previous understanding 
was not a matter for consideration, inasmuch as it 
could not be made to bear the character of an engage- 
ment to be enforced by law. 

My momentary inability to meet the demand for the 
amount of three quarters' rent in arrear, or in prospect, 
was to be regarded as equivalent to the cancelment of 
all past understandings ; and the option given by the noble 
creditor, in the face of prior pledges was, immediately to 
pay the sum of 4000Z., or abandon all interest in the 
theatre which was once my own. And at this crisis, 
promises, assurances, offers of assistance, and goodwill, 
had all " vanished into thin air." The creditor who 
had, not long before, repudiated the intention of exacting 
his " pound of flesh," now demanded that "pound" 
with the sharpest rigour of the law. 

In this painful position — unexpectedly forced upon 
me — painful beyond the mere financial pressure 
— I looked around for means of satisfying my all- 
powerful creditor, in order to avert the complete sur- 
render of all prospective interest in the house wherein 



OPENING OF 1858. 435 

not only ray fortunes, but all the affections and am- 
bitions of long years were " garnered up." " All 
rather than this" was my natural feeling. But the 
situation was hard and perplexing. Thus it fell out 
that, bright and hopeful as all looked before the world 
at the opening of Her Majesty's Theatre for 1858, the 
actual prospects of the management were fraught with 
uneasy forebodings, but too justly entertained. 

For the present matters must be left in this entangle- 
ment. Operatic events press on. It is only necessary to 
bear in mind that, under the circumstances of the opening 
of the new house in Covent Garden as a fresh powerful 
rival to Her Majesty's Theatre, and considering that in 
Lord "Ward's hands hung the destinies of both, no human 
foresight could have anticipated that he would be so 
blind to his own interests (to say nothing of those of his 
tenant), as obstinately to refuse the smallest concession : 
such concession, if made, being calculated to ensure the 
triumph of his own speculation. 

The opening night of the operatic season of 1858 
arrived. On Tuesday, the 13th April, Her Majesty's 
Theatre was once more crowded to its utmost limits. 
The Queen and Court were present on this occasion, an 
event somewhat unusual for an opening night. Every- 
thing wore an aspect of unusual brilliancy. A fre- 
quenter of the theatre might have seen at a glance that 
a far more than customary importance was attached by 
all to this first night of a season. It was, in truth, 
a " first night" of extraordinary interest : a great 
trial night. The opera given was the "Huguenots," 
for the first time produced at Her Majesty's Theatre ; 
and Mademoiselle Tietjens, the great German soprano, 

r F 2 



436 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

with whose fame operatic rumour had so long been 
busy, was to sing the part of Valentine; Signor 
Giuglini also was to appear as Baoul, and even he, 
although he had been received with so much enthusiasm, 
seemed to be placed once more upon his trial, so im- 
portant was the role of Baoul de Nangis. Scarcely 
ever had there been a night of more significance to the 
fortunes of Her Majesty's Theatre: we shall find that 
few were ever more fully triumphant in their results. 

Giuglini was in ecstasies when I told him, on the 
stage, that the Queen was to be present. Both he 
and Tietjens were very nervous ; nevertheless, the 
opera went off well, and the success of Tietjens and 
Giuglini was complete. I attended the Queen on her 
leaving her box, and she said to me, " It was beautiful." 
After the many absurd reports, and the manner in 
which the Queen's name had been used, the visit was of 
great importance. She came again on the Thursday 
night, and waited to the end. 

On a subsequent performance of the " Huguenots," 
Prince Albert, on leaving, asked me why the old man 
(meaning Marcel) wore a scarf on his arm in the 
last act. " Because he is wounded," I replied. " But 
the white scarf is the sign of the Catholic party," he 
rejoined, " and such a bandage creates confusion." I 
thanked his Eoyal Highness for his criticism, which 
certainly was a very just one. 

The reception of Mademoiselle Tietjens was enthu- 
siastic. Her splendid voice, her broad and impas- 
sioned style of acting, and her fine dramatic declamation, 
all delighted her audience. Giuglini was set upon " his 
mettle," and exerted himself to the utmost, singing his 
best, and fully maintaining his footing by the side of the 



THE "HUGUENOTS." 437 

Valentine. Beletti, Yialetti, Aldighieri, and other ex- 
cellent artists, were employed to effect an excellent 
ensemble of this mighty opera. Mademoiselle Ortolani 
warbled with pleasing facility the music of the Queen of 
Navarre, and proved a useful addition to an excellent 
" cast." This lady, although she never attained to a 
very high position in England, was greatly esteemed on 
the Continent, and came to London overwhelmed with 
the honours she had received at the Italian Opera at 
Barcelona. In every department extraordinary zeal 
was exerted to do full justice to this truly im- 
posing work. Scenery, dresses, all the appointments 
were brilliant. As a spectacular production alone the 
opera deserved the highest admiration. Every detail 
had been studied to the highest perfection. The at- 
tempt to place a work of the German maestro upon the 
Anglo-Italian boards, and secure it a place in the reper- 
toire along with the Italian lyrical dramas, — so long in 
all but exclusive possession of the stage — was in itself 
hazardous. But in making this attempt in accordance 
with the spirit of the times, the management not only 
made a bold step but achieved success. The opera of 
the " Huguenots" maintained its position and its powers 
of attraction for many nights on the stage of Her 
Majesty's Theatre; and with it was maintained also the 
fame of the striking prima donna who now first began 
to assert that supremacy which during many following 
years she continued to enjoy. The difficulties with 
which managers have often to contend were again exem- 
plified by the declaration of Mademoiselle Tietjens, that 
she was so unwell as to render it impossible for her to 
sing on the Saturday. On being informed, however, 
that Mademoiselle Spezia would take her part of 



438 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

Valentine, the lady was induced to reconsider her deci- 
sion. Although enjoined on no accotmt to sing if her 
performance was likely to injure her, she now insisted 
on her right. She sang in spite of the alleged im- 
possibility. 

But where was now the "pet?" Mademoiselle Picco- 
loraini made her reappearance, as soon as the increasing 
vogue of the " Huguenots" permitted her return before 
her " carissimi Inglesi," in her lively and animated 
impersonation of Norina in " Don Pasquale." She 
appeared, acted, and sang too, after her own peculiar 
bewitching fashion, and was received by her old public 
with a welcome which seemed to say, " We have adopted 
you as our own especial pet; and we do not mean to 
desert you in behalf of another favourite." 

On the other hand, the popularity of Mademoiselle 
Tietjens was steadily on the increase. Her appearance 
as Leonora in the " Trovatore," was another triumph. 
Critically speaking, the florid music of the Italian 
school may have been less suited to the declamatory 
dramatic style of the German artist than that of 
Valentine. But criticism, in this instance, was over- 
borne by enthusiasm. On the announcement of Made- 
moiselle Tietjens in a new part the house was crowded 
to excess. The Queen and all the Court were present, 
and the whole performance was rendered tenfold more 
effective by the feverish and excited state of the masses 
assembled on the occasion. The general enthusiasm 
knew no bounds. Everything was applauded : Alboni, 
who made her debut for the season, received the due 
welcome of a tried . -and richly-deserving favourite. 
Giuglini once more carried off his share of the honours, 
but not the least luminous of the " stars" was the new 
prima donna. 



THE BALLET. 439 

No wonder, then, that under the circumstances other 
distinguished cantatrici looked on, and beheld this rival 
absorb universal attention with undisguised mortifica- 
tion. No wonder that intrigues were discovered within 
the walls of the theatre, having for their object to reinstate 
Mademoiselle Spezia in the position of which she had 
been altogether deprived by Queen Tietjens. During the 
previous season this excellent singer had made good her 
pretensions to a high rank as prima donna. If she 
had not altogether won it, she had displayed sufficient 
power to warrant her in trying a fresh effort. The 
" pet" now fluttered uneasily, flying restlessly from 
branch to branch of her repertoire, and finding no more 
a safe perch whence to pour forth her song to the de- 
light of the thousands who whilome had flocked to hear 
her. Some good chances, which she richly deserved 
if only in gratitude for all the former services she had 
rendered to the establishment, were still in store for 
her, however. How they availed her in the fight re- 
mains to be told. It can scarcely be said that any 
chances arrived for the less fortunate Mademoiselle 
Spezia, who had only the opportunity of singing once 
more during the season in the " Nino" of Verdi. 

It must not be supposed that during all this attrac- 
tion, in a more immediately operatic sense, the ballet 
had been altogether neglected. The management had 
certainly learned by experience that the times, when 
striking pantomimic dramas, as arenas for choreogra- 
phic action as well as dancing, and as vehicles for the 
gorgeous marvels of the scene-painter and the machinist, 
afforded remunerative returns for the lavish expense 
bestowed on them, had long since gone by. But, by a 
necessity of ancient reputation, the Direction of Her 
Majesty's Theatre always felt itself called upon to 



440 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

maintaiii the old prestige of the lallet as an indis- 
pensable part and portion of the attractions of the 
house. Thus, in the earlier season, Mademoiselle 
Pocchini, vigorous, agile, and graceful, who had been 
received into great favour in the previous year, led the 
band of admirable danseuses — and their name was 
" legion" — in two new productions. Neither " Calista, 
ou le Eenvoi de 1' Amour" nor " Fleur des Champs" 
merited much more than the title of divertissement, 
although bearing the pretentious appellation of ballet. 
In the latter, it is true, might be found a sort 
of thread of mythological and allegorical story, and 
it was exquisitely put upon the stage. But the 
palmy days of the ballet, properly so called, were no 
more. The distaste prevalent among fashionable dawdlers 
had become all-powerful. This diminished taste for the 
old style of ballet with a story did not prevent Made- 
moiselle Pocchini, however, from maintaining in " La 
Fleur des Champs" the great reputation she had already 
acquired. 

As the choreographic department of the establish- 
ment was certainly far from supporting its former 
character during a season signalized rather by operatic 
triumphs, it may be well to state summarily that two 
of the most favourite danseuses of the time, Eosati 
and Marie Taglioni, came, danced each in her own 
special divertissement, won their customary tribute of 
applause, and gathered their customary heaps of bou- 
quets, yet without materially adding to the lusti'e of 
the season. 

It has been mentioned that Mademoiselle Piccolomini 
was fortunate enough to avail herself of " chances," such 
as did not fall to the lot of other ladies of the establish- 



"la SERYA PADRONA." 441 

ment. The revival of " Don Giovanni," with a complete- 
ness scarcely inferior to that of the previous year, enabled 
her to display all her winning witcheries as Zerlina; 
and a pretty, arch, coquettish little Zerlina she made, 
though no longer the exclusive theme of all tongues as 
heretofore. The Donna Anna of Mademoiselle Tietjens, 
whose increasing popularity lifted her into the part 
(sung the previous year by Mademoiselle Spezia), com- 
manded particular attention. Thus, also, in the 
" Nozze di Figaro," Mademoiselle Spezia was again 
superseded by the new prima donna whom all opera- 
frequenters now desired to hear. The Countess of the 
German lady absorbed all admiration and remark. In 
this latter -opera Mademoiselle Ortolani seemed borne 
down and utterly lost as Cherubino. 

On the other hand, the " little lady" strove hard for 
the supremacy. In " La Zingara" (the " Bohemian Girl" 
of Balfe), she employed all her charms to win back 
truant hearts, supported by Madame Alboni as the 
Gipsy Queen. Again did she make a bold shot at fickle 
admirers in Paesiello's little operetta of " La Serva 
Padrona." Here all her fascinations had full play; 
and this her last new part was one of the most striking, 
as it was one of the best of her performances. But 
although charming little Marietta Piccolamini still 
occupied a fair share of public favour, she could not 
but feel that many a courtier was leaving her "levees" 
to crowd around the throne of another. 

It has been said that one especial chance was offered 
to Mademoiselle Piccolomini to shine with renewed 
lustre. She was destined to be the heroine of the only 
opera entirely new to the London stage which was pro- 
duced during the season. On Tuesday, the 8th June, 



442 REMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

was given for the first time on the Anglo-Italian boards 
Verdi's opera of " Luisa Miller;" and both Mademoiselle 
Piccolomini and Madame Alboni were included in the 
"cast." Of this work some Italian critics had been 
accustomed to speak as the chef-d'ceuvre of their 
favourite composer. 

But the production of " Luisa Miller" did not greatly 
benefit the management. The " little lady" displayed 
all her attractive qualities as an actress, and as an 
actress reaped her harvest of applause. But by general 
accord, on the part of Verdi-ites as well as anti-Verdi-ites, 
the opera was declared to be the weakest of his many 
productions. It was considered to be wanting in melody 
— a charge seldom brought against Signor V&rdi. There 
were no particular salient points to be looked forward to 
as the grands bouquets of Signor Verdi's musical fire- 
works, as is the case in most of his other operas. The 
libretto also, founded upon Schiller's early tragedy of 
" Kabale und Liebe," a subject, it might be thought, 
highly favourable to lyrical working out, had lost so 
much of its true dramatic metal in passing through the 
crucible of the Italian poeta, that it had come out a mass 
of unattractive and unsightly ore. Passages of interest 
and passion could not be altogether wanting with a 
subject in, which the dramatic instincts of the composer 
could not be utterly silent; but the true element, both 
musically and dramatically speaking, was evidently 
absent, at least to English minds. Signor Giuglini sang 
the one pleasing romanza to the delight of a crowded 
audience ; and Alboni poured forth her mellifluous notes 
in an interpolated cavatina ; but " Luisa Miller" failed 
to win the suffrages of the frequenters of Her Majesty's 
Theatre. It lingered, hoping for success "against 



CLOSE OF 1858. 443 

hope," on the boards of Her Majesty's Theatre for fi 
very few nights, and then fled them to return no 
more. 

In the meanwhile, the new prima donna h.^^ been 
marching forward from one success to another. The 
Lucrezia Borgia of Mademoiselle Tietjens was allowed 
to be the finest of all her characters. It "took the 
house by storm ;" and there was no one to question the 
fact that England had won a great artist. In a short 
time she had fairly established herself in the favour of 
the frequenters of the Opera.* 

With every, apparent prospect of the most satisfactory 
results, the regular season rolled on to its close. To 
this a series of " cheap nights," the success of which on 
former occasions had fully warranted their renewal, 
succeeded: affording to Mademoiselle Piccolomini her 
final triumphs, uncontested by a rival, previous to her 
departure for her American expedition. At last the 
curtain fell, and terminated the protracted season of 
1858. It fell: and but few persons were aware at the 

* That a spirit of rivality and jealousy should have existed between 
the favourite of the present and the favourite of the future may easily 
be imagined. But, strange to say, this spirit was exhibited more 
strongly on the part of the rising than of the setting star. The tii' 
wavghmii prima donna seems to have found subject of complaint in the 
amount of bouquets flung to the " little lady," as far exceeding her own, 
and likew ise in the fact that a distinguished /jaJi'fe^, who always applauded 
" the pet," bestowed but a scanty amount of approval on herself. The 
increasing requirements of the successful eantatrice were also a subject 
of much annoyance to the management ; so much so, that Mademoiselle 
Spezia was required to be in readiness to take her place, should her 
exacting conditions be such as to lead to a rupture. The ingratitude 
of some artists is astounding. When her success was still doubtful, 
the lady was all meekness, and full of fears lest she should not be re- 
engaged. I^ow that it had surpassed her most sanguine expectations) 
the tone adopted towards the direction was entirely changed. 



444 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

time, that it had fallen upon the last performance 
destined to be directed by the hand and mind of 
Benjamin Lumley. Few indeed knew that my con- 
nexion with Her Majesty's Theatre had been already 
cruelly severed. Certainly none anticipated that I 
was no more to be the ruling spirit of that vast 
establishment. What, then, was the actual position of 
affairs ? 

The opening of the new Italian Opera-house in 
Covent Garden unquestionably offered formidable ob- 
stacles to the temporary prosperity of Her Majesty's 
Theatre; but I still entertained the impression that, if 
certain effective measures were taken, and the estab- 
lishment could be " kept going" for the next two years, 
the rival house must at last necessarily succumb. Lord 
Ward, in whose hands now lay, for good or for evil, the 
determination of the destinies of the " old house," seemed 
at this critical period to have felt the whole force of 
this calculation. 

Under this view, it was well-nigh impossible for 
me to imagine that, for a comparatively trifling ques- 
tion of three quarters' rent (scarcely exceeding the sum 
of 4000^.), Lord Ward could put upon me that harsh 
and stringent pressure which must necessarily cause 
great injury to the theatre and to his own interests. 
It was calculated to inflict a deadly blow; on the " time- 
honoured " establishment, and to drive the man for 
whom he had professed so much friendship and interest 
to the verge of ruin. Moreover, by refusing further 
time for the payment of arrears by not extending the 
term of the lease, or making any reduction in the rent, 
the opportunity was lost for carrying out the pro- 
ject of an association, for which in fact, since the 



SURRENDER OF LEASE. 445 

(then recent) alterations in the laws of partnership, the 
capital was provided. Such a scheme, if carried out, 
would have enabled the theatre to flourish as in the 
best days of its prosperity. But these expectations 
were not destined to be realized. In the face of pre- 
vious promises Lord Ward left me no alternative be- 
tween the immediate payment of the arrears of rent, or 
an immediate cession of the whole property into his own 
hands ; and the peremptory demand for the balance of 
rent was accompanied too, with the equally peremptory 
refusal to make the concessions alluded to. 

It has already been stated that, under this pres- 
sure, I looked around for means of softening ray all- 
powerful and inexorable creditor. Since the resump- 
tion of the performances at Her Majesty's Theatre, 
more than 50001. had been expended by me on 
those general appointments of scenic representations, 
technically called " properties." Although all previous 
" properties" had been assigned to Lord Ward, these 
at least were bond fide my own. Still the assignment 
of them was required. This point also I conceded in 
the hope of conciliating my powerful creditor, and an 
agreement was signed by me to this effect. But the 
sacrifice was made in vain, and was of no greater avail 
than "the offering of a heathen devotee to an implacable 
deity." On the very same day that the receipt of the 
agreement was acknowledged, it was notified to me that 
a writ was issued against me for the fatal " arrears of 
rent." Nothing remained, therefore, but a surrender of 
the lease and, along with this, of the possession of the 
theatre into the noble but now exacting creditor's 
hands. The debtor was thus successively laid under 
obligation, and then stripped bare; no alternative being 



446 REMINISCENCES OP THE OPERA. 

open to me excepting that between " payment " and sur- 
render, to the last rag of " properties," lease and all. 
That it was legally in the power of my landlord to 
enforce both these conditions, I afterwards learned to 
my cost. But, strong in my own opinion at the time, 
I submitted to the surrender of the lease. Possession 
of the premises was formally given up, and my connexion 
with the theatre was brought to an end. On Tuesday, 
the 10th of August, the establishment passed wholly 
into the hands of Lord Ward.* 

Supported by the esteem and regard of many highly- 
placed and influential friends both in this country and 
on the continent, I was enabled to support this heavy 
and unexpected blow of fortune with courage and calm 
resignation. The cares of management were not 
wholly removed from my shoulders, certainly, since 
T had for some time to provide for the distinguished 

* I find a remarkable note of these circumstances in my diary: 
"I Lad seen B " (Lord Ward's solicitor) "on the Friday pre- 
viously, at his request ; and he seemed somewhat surprised and dis- 
appointed at my readiness to give up possession of the opera, and ap- 
peared to wish some arrangement could be brought about by which I 
could continue — ^urged me to see Lord Ward again — said that he would 
do so, &c. &c. But Lord Ward had gone to Scotland, to be out of the 
way (as he said himself) when possession was given up. It is difficult 
to account for all that has passed ; indeed, no ordinary reasoning can 
explain it. I have been actuated by nothing but good feeling, and have 
endeavoured to do my utmost, as I thought, to realize his wishes. In- 
deed, I have acted towards him as I would have wished (had our relative 
positions been reversed) that he should have acted towards me. I have 
paid every artist to the last shilling, and kept up the prestige of the 
theatre, and its consequent value. I had a right, therefore, to calculate 
on something beyond a mere rigid commercial feeling on his part. The 
sudden change in him is without any apparent reason or motive. At 
least, it is impossible for me to fathom them. I can but think he must 
have been played upon by some enemy. However, time alone can clear 
up the obscurity which darkens all this." 



COUNT CAVOUR. 447 

artists whose engagements were still upon my bands.* 
Eventful, and fraught with considerable interest, was 
still the existence that for some time lay before me 
after the severance of my career from the fortunes of 
Her Alajesty's Theatre. But with that severance must 
terminate the history of my management, with all 
its trials, all its glories, all its vicissitudes, and all its 
many triumphs. 

That management had comprised, perhaps, the most 
brilliant period of the history of Italian Opera in the 
British Isles ; and thus, even under the poignant disap- 
pointments which led to my final resignation of the 
direction of Her Majesty's Theatre, I was sustained by 
the absence of all self-reproach in retracing the memory 
of the past, as well as by the consciousness of the great 
things I had been able to achieve as director of the 
first theatre in the kingdom — may it not be added the 
first in Europe ?f 

* When, in after years, I readily consented to allow my artists 
to give their valuable services to the Turin Opera, it was the earnest 
wish of the king and his minister, the lamented Count Cavour, that 
the opening of the first Italian Parliament should be accompanied 
by the mounting of a well-appointed opera, instead of the inferior one 
which had been on foot in previous years. In January, 1861, but a 
few months before his death, this eminent statesman thus addressed 
a letter tome: '■' Je vous assure que je considhre cet acfe comme une 
preuve de la sympathie que, comme tout Anglais genereux, vous avez 
toujours professes pour la Cause d'ltalie." 

t Among many other distinguished artists, I had the pride of 
reflecting that I had produced for the first time in England upon 
my boards, Madame Sontag (after her long retirement), Jenny Lind, 
Tadolini, Frezzolini, Sophie Cruvelli, Parodi, Moltini, Castellan, 
Caroline Duprez, Barbieri-Nini, Spezia, Ortolani, Johanna Wagner, 
De la Grange, Albertini, Piccolomini, and Tietjens. Again, Gardoni, 
Moriani, Calzolari, Baucarde, Fraschini, Guasoo, Eonconi, Beletti, For- 
nasari, Staudigl, De Bassini, Aldighiferi, Coletti, Beneventano, Bdlart, 
and Giuglini. Nor must Arditi be forgotten, than whom, taking 



448 EEMINISCENCES OF THE OPERA. 

■all qualities into account, a more able " conductor " never reigned in 
this country. Among dancers, lElosati, Cerito, Ferraris, Lucille Gralin, 
Marie Taglioni, Adfele Dumilatre, Guy Stephan, Pocchini, Monti, the 
danseuses Viennoises, and the great Taglioni (on her return) ; besides 
Perrot, St. L6on, Paul Taglioni, Massot, and a host of minor stars of 
great brilliancy, belonging to both sexes — founding, by my exertions, a 
new school of dancing, both in London and Paris. In operas, I had pro- 
duced for the first time the " Don Carlos" of Costa, the " Tempesta" of 
Halfivy, the "Masnadieri" of Verdi, the "Florinda" of Thalberg (all 
composed expressly for the theatre), "La Piglia del Eeggimento,'' 
" Ernani," " I Due Foscari," " Attila," " I Lombardi," " Nabucco," 
"Eoberto il Diavolo" (in Italian), " La Zirigara" (in Italian), " II Pro- 
digo," "Gustavus" (in Italian), "Zampa," " Don Pasquale," "Linda," 
"LaFavorita," "Eoberto Devereux," "Maria diEohan," "LaTraviata," 
" Luisa Miller," " II Trovatore," " La Serva Padrona," " L'Ajo nel 
Embarazzo," "Le Tre Nozze," "Le Cantatrici Villane," "LaCorbeille 
d'Oranges," " Cosi fan'Tntte," " Corrado d'Altamura," and " Belisario*";" 
besides other novelties, too many for enumeration, and standard old 
operas, a host in themselves. The catalogue of the new ballets would 
lead us much too far. But " Alma," " Esmeralda," "Eoline," "Ca- 
tarina," "Ondine,""LallaEookh," "Electra," maybe remembered; to 
say no,thing of the famous " Pas de Quatre," " Le Jugement de Paris," 
and " Les ifil^ments." 



THE END. 






'^^! 












^0M^ 









tj'^Hfy, 



