^fesbyterian College Library 

Clinton. South Carolina 



I 



Didrij of 

IPillidm Plumer Jacobs 



Presbyterian College Library 

Clinton. South Carolina 



/ 



V 




WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Founder of Thornwell Orphanage 
Founder of PreMbyterian (^)lli'jre of South Carolina 
.earn Paiitor of the 1st Presbyterian Church of Clinton, S. C. 



DIARY 

of 

William Plumer Jacobs 



Edited bi] 
TRORNIDELL JAC05S 




OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Ogrlethorpe University, Georgia, U. S. A. 



05 ,. 

6 

7 I5C 



Copyright 1937 
by 
Thornwell Jacobs 
Published September, 1937 



PRINTPrO IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 



073578 



INTRODUCTION 



Many readers of this volume will doubtless consider it to 
be the story of the most inspiring village pastorate in the his- 
tory of the world. It is a record covering sixty years, set down 
day by day, pigmented with every color of the spectrum, and vo- 
cal with every tone of feeling. It is utterly real ; yet strangely 
ethereal. It reveals a human soul in constant, intimate contact 
with God, and the results thereof. 

It is the story of a little boy in a great city who fell in love 
with all good things and who resolved to center his whole life 
upon obtaining them, and who did so. 

It is the story of a youth to whom a church, and an orphan- 
age, and a college, and a library, and a printing office meant so 
much in the great city of Charleston, that he transplanted them 
to "a wide place in the road" which was Clinton of 1865. 

It is the story of an aged man whose faith, and love, and 
courage were sufficient to conquer sickness, and blindness, and 
deafness, and years, and death. 

And it is the story of a man who loved little children, not 
only for their own sake, but also because they represent the fu- 
ture of all that is worth while on this earth. 

Thornwell Jacobs 



CHAPTER ONE 

1858— Age 15 

January first, 1858. Today is the New Year. Today we 
must make our resolves for the year and if God will aid me I 
will study and read my Bible more, and try to be better. Let this 
be a bright year to us. God has spared us and let us make use 
of our opportunities. 

January fourth. Holyday ended today and I returned and 
had my lessons for tomorrow appointed after which I went into 
the library and stayed for a while. I am almost the only one who 
goes in there. 

January fifth. Today I did what we seldom do and that is 
that I recited to every professor. Presly went to the store today 
and it has thrown him into exstatics. It was very rainy. We 
are having a spell of bad weather. I continued reading today 
in "The Book and Its Story." It is all about the Bible and was 
written at the request of the London Home and Foreign Bible 
Society. I commenced brushing up my stenography today. It 
is a beautiful science and everyone ought to know it. 

January sixth. After getting my lessons for tomorrow I 
brushed up my lessons for Hebrew and commenced reading the 
Hebrew Bible. I finished reading The Book and Its Story. 

January seventh. We have but few lessons for tomorrow, 
wherefore, after college, I went into the library and sat there 
reading and writing for about an hour and a half. 

January twelfth. My breast pains me so and I have occas- 
ionally sharp touches of pain in my lungs. I have a bad cold 
and sore-throat but the two last I am constantly afflicted with 
and know not when I will get over them. The first I have only 
in the winter time. 

January thirteenth. As it is Wednesday at night I went to 
my society and we had a very interesting debate. I toejc part 
in it. I find that these debates do me a great deal of good for 
now I find that both my thoughts and my tongue flow faster. 
And before going I learned all my lessons. It is a dreadful hard 
thing to get my mind upon my books. I study now Horner^ 
Horace (Odes), geometry, trigonometry and modern history. 

17 



18 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Janiuirij sixteeenth. I broke my spectacles today and I got 
them soon mended, however, at Hayden's. At ten at night I had 
to go to the dancing school for the young ladies. I decidedly 
don't like it. It is against my grit and every Saturday I feel 
all in fidgets. And now this is the end of the week. Tomorrow 
is Sunday and am I prepared for it as I should be? that I 
were always so! 

January twentieth. At night I went to my society and al- 
though I feel reluctant to go yet I know that it does me a great 
deal of good. I have got into the art of debating and now I al- 
ways say something; I will improve sometime or other though 
now I do sometimes make awkward blunders. 

Friday, January tic enty -ninth. After college I went in the 
library and I had a good, long chat with Mister Miles, the li- 
brarian. He is a fine man and I like him. 

Thursday, Fehrimry fourth. Tonight was prayer meeting 
night. It rained and father thought it best for me not to go. My 
heart reproaches me sorely tonight and let me make confession 
to my journal. It was not with any feeling of regret that I re- 
linquished going! Oh, when will I love the prayer meeting bet- 
ter. I do wish I did ! 

Friday, February fifth. The library was shut up and I 
could not go in after college. So I came home immediately and 
worked upon my printing press. I have got the treadles and 
cylinder finished. 

Monday, February eighth. O let me always remember this 
night. Tonight I applied for admission to the Church and was 
received as a member. I applied the 26th of last October but I 
was received only as a seeker and I thank God that I was receiv- 
ed only as a seeker; for now I am sure of myself and know my 
own heart. Thank God I am enabled to receive him to my heart. 
O that Presly would find the way I have! Father joined just my 
age. 

Wednesduy, February tenth. Tonight I had to speak at my 
s 'v. I am monthly orator. I could not give up my society. 
1l 1.^ ^o improving. In after life I want to remember the hall of 
the Chrestomathic Society. I wonder why I am writing this Jour- 
nal? Ix't's .see! P^ureka! I expect some one to read it here- 
after! Who is this someone? F^ureka! Why, myself, of course, 
or perhaps! Eureka! My wife! (If I ever get one). 

Thursday, Febi nai y rUrvnth, I have never yet been late to 
college. Today, father had his name put on the door. We have 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 19 

been here nearly five years. . . 1 went to our prayer meeting at 
night. I do wish I loved prayer meeting more for itself's sake. 

Saturday, February thirteenth. 

PHONOGRAPHY 

Come doum, Apollo, frmn your heights 

No longer are you God of ivriting, 

You ouly could by zoords invite, 

Ben Pitman is by pages writing. 

You wrote a sentence in an hour; 

Pitman in a half a minute. 

Yes, he*s a mighty writing power 

You ought to see ho-w he can spin it. 

SOUND writing is a noble aH; 

And 'tis sound icriting in the bargain; 

You've only heard a little part 

'Bout the neiv sciences noiv a dawning. 

Writing by steam is dreadful slow work, 

Nor is any better your wiiting by lightning. 

But just look a here at this icriting by ink. 

Its speed I declare is dreadfully f lightening, 

Wednesday, February seventeenth. I got all my lessons be- 
fore dinner and after it I went to the post office and as usual I 
went in at Courtenay's and had a conversation with his books. 
Oh, I do love books. . . At night I went to a meeting of our 
society and as usual debated. 

Thursday, February eighteenth. I got out to prayer meet- 
ing at night and the services were extremely interesting. We 
prayed for a revival but it seems as if we shall never get it. 

Wednesday, February tiventy- fourth. As it was very damp 
and rainy at night, I did not go to my society. I was veiy sorry 
but it was all for the best for that night they had some uproar- 
ious mirth which would ill have suited me. 

Thursday, February twenty-fifth. At night I went to the 
united prayer meeting (for the youth in schools and colleges). 
The exercises were deeply interesting and to me doubly so. They 
prayed for me. O my God, today I gave myself up, soul and 
body to Thy service. Ordain me, I pray Thee, to go and preach 
Thy holy and everlasting gospel to Thy dying heathen. I am will- 
ing, Lord, if Thou art. 

Friday, February tiventy-sixth. There is not such a spirit 
of insubordination in our college as is being manifested all around 



20 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

us; and this some of the students greatly deplore, and have made 
several attempts to raise a row ; but it v^as 'no go/ 

Sundai/, February tiventy -eighth. I have come out and join- 
ed the Church and I belong to the Lord's Army. Lord give 
me, I pray Thee, the armor I shall need. 

Tuesday, March second. Hardly anything worthy of record 
has happened today. I go now in the library every day. Mr. 
Miles, the librarian, is such a learned man and so ready to help 
anyone. I went in the library after college and read some in 
Disraeli's Curiosities of Literature. 

Wednesday, March third. At night I went to my society. I 
debated. I like this debating as it helps my style a good deal. 
The next question for debate is "Whether Great Britain or the 
United States exercises the greatest influence over the world." 
Of course I think the United States does though I know that 
England does. I love the noble debating club of the Psi Sigma 
Phi. 

Saturday, March sixth. I have to go down for the young 
ladies at the dancing school. I do most heartily wish that nobody 
had ever heard of dancing. 

Tuesday, March ninth. In the afternoon I got a pair of shoes 
from 0. Daly for $1.00. I also bought some minor things. At 
night I commenced hearing Lavinia read. She is another of my 
scholars. We have some sixty subscribers to our magazine. At 
night I read one hundred lines of Homer in review. This is a 
wonderful feat for such a lazy boy as me. 

Thursday, March eleventh. For the last four days I have 
been regularly called upon in history and classics. I wonder 
what kind of marks I get. Edgerton says he is coming in our 
class next March on purpose to take first honor! Though I 
have done horrid this term I want to stay just to show that I am 
some game. I have just come from prayer and Dr. Smyth ad- 
dressed us very prettily. 0, I wish I loved prayer meeting more. 
I hope I shall soon be able to say that there is nothing sweeter 
to my soul than to be a door-keeper in the house of God. 

Monday, March fifteenth. Today is my birthday. I am six- 
teen years old today and I weigh 93 pounds and am five feet, 
three inches tall and in the Fresh-Sophomore year at college. 
Mr. McCrady returned this morning and I must own that he 
came very unexpectedly and made us recite as equally so. Ripley 
has broken my spectacles and I am, in a truly pretty fix. I 
must have them tomorrow. 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 21 

Tuesday, March sixteenth. This morning I went down to 
Hayden's and got my spectacles mended, and tonight I have to 
go out with two of the young ladies. I wrote some today for 
our magazine. We intend calling it the "Southern Guardian" 
and what a wonder, we have got fifty subscribers. 

*'He that is humble ever shall have God to be his guide.*' 

Wednesday, March seventeenth. At night I went to my so- 
ciety and took off all cares from my mind. 

Hoot away despair; 
Never yield to sorrow; 
A cloudy sky may ivear 
A sunny face tomorrow. 

Friday, March nineteenth. Oh, how pleasant it is to spend 
the hours of twilight in thought and meditation. 

Saturday, March twentieth. I went into the museum today 
and looked around a good deal. I believe I will study its won- 
ders; how wonderful. It is beautifully arranged and labelled 
certainly by an experienced hand. 

Su7iday, March twenty-eighth. Even father says he never 
saw such a revival before. It is wonderful. Surely God is in this 
place. 

Wednesday, March thirty-first. Well, I am glad that I am 
to remain at college. I got my report today and I am glad to say 
that I (contrary to expectation) have a better one than last year. 
My general average is 89. 

Thursday, April first. Oh, ought we not to thank God that 
he has permitted us to see these things. Charleston has never 
witnessed such a revival. 

Tuesday, April thirteenth. Let this day be the second great 
day of my life. I have seen and heard the great American or- 
ator, Everett. 

Saturday, April seventeenth. In the morning I went with 
Ripley to the museum and we spent two hours there. We saw 
some strange wonders of the deeps; the balloon fish is a very 
curious thing. God is good and I feel it every time I enter this 
temple of science. In the afternoon I went down to ye Courier 
office to get a paper. I succeeded after much trouble. There is 
only one of the young ladies going to dancing now. I do wish 
she would stop. Father came home at night and he asked me 
what was the news? I studied my regular phonography lesson. 

Tuesday, April twentieth. I studied my phonography and 



22 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

read two or three pieces. 0, phonography is a noble study. 

Friday, April twenty-third. After college I went down to 
Mr. Woodruff and we had a long, sociable chat. I began to tell 
him something about phonography and he was writing so I 
thought I had better leave. Imagine my surprise when he stop- 
ped me and read off all I had been saying. 0, Mr. Woodruff is 
a brick and I like him. At night I went to hear Mr. Girardeau. 
I liked him very well. His text was from Jer. 2:19. I tried to 
write down his sermon in short hand. We changed our room to- 
day. Mr. Woodruff is a brick. 

Saturday, April twenty -fourth. Phonography takes up all 
my thoughts and I can hardly write or talk of anything else. I 
learned all my lessons. Mr. Porcher's branch is right hard. At 
night I studied Horace and did a good many et ceteras. 

Sunday, April twenty-fifth. Father is going to learn pho- 
nography and I am so glad. I love it. 

Wednesday, April tiventy-eighth. It is now exactly half past 
ten. Presly isn't home yet and I have just come from my society 
and we had tall times initiating members. I have got pretty well 
in the art of short hand writing. I have to study awful hard 
now and I cannot study it seems. 

Wednesday, May fifth. God has taught us again that in the 
midst of life we are in death. A companion has been called into 
eternity by the falling of the platform at Magnolia. Dreadful 
thought. Why he, not I? At nine-thirty, for we had no college 
today, I went down to Mr. Woodruff's room to read phonography. 
At night I went to my society and I practiced myself in attempt- 
ing to report. Query for next time: "Was Aaron Burr a trai- 
tor?" 

Saturday, May eighth. I went down to Mr. Woodruff's and 
stayed a while today. Hereafter I will omit mentioning I went 
down to see him. 

Monday, May tenth. I am ashamed of myself. I have acted 
a lie and nobody knows it. 

Saturday, May fifteenth, I was gone out all this morning 
for father, collecting and doing other little things but I found 
time to crawl in at Mister Woodruff's and there I got Glover to 
learn phonography; he has commenced with Mr. Woodruff. 

Sunday, May sixteenth. My eyes pained me dreadfully. 
Monday, May seventeenth. My eyes are getting worse. 
Thursday, May twentieth. Towards night it rained and thun- 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 23 

dered dreadfully. It is now just one month twenty days since I 
began the study of phonography and I can now write it with ease. 

Friday, May twentij'first. This morning after college I 
went down to Mr. Woodruff's but he was not in and so I just 
waited a little while down there. 

Satiirduy, Man twenty -second. This morning I again went 
down to Mr. Woodruff's and I got from him a specimen of the 
Book of Psalms and I hope father will get me one when they 
come. I must have one. 

Wednesday, May twenty-fourth. Today, another day of my 
life is gone; I have found out how. to save an hour by studying 
an hour immediately after breakfast and thus saving myself from 
talking nonsense at college. At night I went to the regular week- 
ly meeting of the Chrestomathic Society. We had a glowing de- 
bate. 

Sunday, June sLvth. This morning I felt too worldly. I 
could not get my thought off from the flesh and the things of 
the flesh. But in the afternoon I felt much more like praising 
God and Oh ! how sweet it is to sing eternal praises to the Lord 
Most high. Oh ! how sweet an assemblage we had at night. And 
the hymns we sing. Oh! it seems as if my whole heart joins in 
the Chorus ! Praise ye the Lord. 

Monday, June seventh. I intend hereafter setting down on 
a slate all that I should do through the day. Today was my first 
trial and I think I have done well as my slate shows every letter 
scratched off. What a delightful occupation is the Minister's 
and what a responsibility is his. He most certainly must get 
out of "self" and into Christ. By God's grace I will be a min- 
ister of the gospel. 

Thursday. June tenth. I believe if I ever have time and 
ground that I will raise blackberries and see what can be made of 
them. I wish to go to our dear prayer meeting tonight. 

Monday, June twenty-eighth. What shall I say and what 
shall I do! My eyes are sore, my legs are sore, my back is sore 
and we are all over sore. I was out in the broiling sun five hours 
today. Mister Keitt spoke but I did not hear him as I was so 
tired I hardly knew what I did. Well, I can say, parading has 
completely used me up and I am heartily sick and tired of this 
"fine fun." I have lost a day. Nothing entirely and completely 
nothing, have I done today. I might have done better. 

Monday, July sixth. The first sound that reached my ears 



24 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

this morning was the roaring of the cannon, mingled with the 
fife and drum. Together with Ripley pushing Presly and Pres- 
ly's holiday hurrahing. Well, again I dozed. But before long, 0, 
the noise, the shouting and screaming, the songs and choruses. 
And this is the Fourth of July. 

Sunday, July eleventh. Dr. Smyth gave me a beautiful ser- 
mon but I was so inattentive. ! I am afraid I am growing cal- 
lous. I really am getting worse and worse daily. 

Thursday, July fifteenth. I cannot think what is going to 
become of me at college. Few in my class like me, and why ! Be- 
cause I try as much as possible to obey father's wishes and the 
rules of the college. 

Friday, July sixteenth. After college today I went down 
to Mr. Woodruff's and we had a real old fashioned talk with him 
about phonography. Should anyone wish to know my opinion 
of phonography I can say that I would rather know it than have 
$100 in cash. 

Sunday, July tiventy- fifth. At night Sara, Ripley, Presly 
and I began reciting verses from the Bible and to see who could 
keep up longest. Ripley and Presly broke right down but Sara 
and I kept up for an hour, but I got tired and stopped. 

Sunday, August eighth. This morning father preached at 
our church and of course I liked him as well as any other min- 
ister I ever heard. In the afternoon as usual, I went up to the 
mission school to my class. C. P. gave me some trouble. Mus- 
tard is a nice little boy. Allen White tried to do as I wanted him 
to and gave me much pleasure. 

Tuesday, August tenth. This morning I went to the college 
library and there I met Mr. Lamond. He loaned me **Excerpta 
Chronologica" or ''Chronology of the Kings of Judah and Is- 
rael" to copy. I got a fine blank book from father and com- 
menced copying. 

Friday, August thirteenth. The Yellow Fever is in town 
and father says I must be careful. Mr. Lamond says that once 
he could wipe his pen on his head but he can't now. He thinks 
a great many good blacksmiths are spoilt every year by robust 
boys being sent to college. Frenchmen like he take up for France 
to the detriment of England, U. S. and Germany. I got from Mr. 
Woodruff the Declaration of Independence in shorthand. I read 
some in Disraeli. 

Mondnif, Avqust sixteenth. Father has got holyday from the 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 26 

church and he went off to Alexandria to see our aunts. I hope 
he will bring cousin Lizzie along back with him. 

Friday, August twentieth. I spent part of the day at Mr. 

Lamond's at the library. Today a lady came here and I took the 

k money for she came to pay a bill. It is the first money I have 

ever taken in that way. All the afternoon and at night I listened 

to Presly reading and brushed some of father's books. 

Thursday, August twenty -sixth. Davies Brown is no more. 
Yellow Fever is the cause. But do not weep, but for thyself, 
that thou art left behind. 

Friday, August tiventy -seventh. I spent a greater part of 
the morning in the library, studying Greek and Hebrew and read- 
ing Irving's Traveller. I confess that I could easily have ob- 
b tained better reading. After dinner I wrote a letter to Aunt 

Abby, giving her all the news. After that I paid a visit to Mr. 
Miles to borrow and return the college library key. At night 
I read some in the Princeton Review. 

Saturday, August twenty -eighth. In the morning I was over 
to college in the museum, studying the maker's handywork. This 
museum is second to none in the United States and fourth to 
none in the world. 

Monday, August thirtieth. I do not know how I could have 
got along these holydays without the college library. I will, Deo 
volente, go in there every holyday. 

Tuesday, August thirty-first. This morning as usual I went 
to the library and had a fine time of it. I studied some Latin 
and read part of ''Selden's Table Talk." In the afternoon I 
read "Life of Dr. Alexander" in the Princeton Review. that 
I were better than I am. I fear, yes, sometimes I shudder when 
I think of my sins. Dr. Alexander was a good man. 

Wednesday, September first. What could a man of a lit- 
erary turn do without reading. If you would banish him to a 
St. Helena, give him his library, his pen and all the new books 
that came out and he is perfectly content. So I find it. I begin 
to love my books. I am a philo - - no a bibliophile! O! 

Friday, September third. I fixed today a case for my col- 
lection of curious coins. I begin in a slight degree to like num- 
mismatics. There is a piece in the paper about coins that stirred 
me up to do what I could in the collecting way. 

Sunday, September tivelfth. In the afternoon and at night 
it rained so hard that I could not go out so Presly ,-,Sara and I 



26 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

got to talking, after which we read and explained verses in the 
Bible to each other. It was interesting. 

Monday, September thirteenth. In college this morning I 
read and talked. Mr. Lamond was giving us details of his school 
days and made us all come to the conclusion that those times 
must have been glorious times. In the afternoon I wrote a let- 
ter to Aunt Abbie. Writing is a bore. The Yellow Fever seems 
to be all the talk today — 103 deaths this week. Presly is bet- 
ter. I hear that Maum Linda is dead. 

Wednesday, September fifteenth. I began my dictionary 
of the sciences today by writing a piece on phonetics. Father 
says that the rain is probably caused by the many icebergs in the 
Atlantic at present. . . . Since writing the above, he has thrown 
up the doctrine of the icebergs. 

Monday, September tiventieth. I saw the comet today. I 
cannot see it well with my spectacles but it is very beautiful and 
large with father's spy glasses. It is larger than any other comet 
I have ever seen. ''What is a comet'' is something I would like 
to know. 

Tuesday, September tiventy- first. I had a long talk this 
morning about coins, history, chronology and prophecy with Mr. 
Lemaunts. He said that a coin which I have called the Wash- 
ington cent was issued with the likeness of W. upon it but the 
people were so troubled with the monarchial idea it carried with 
it that Washington immediately recalled it. They are very 
scarce now and each one is worth $2.00. I have a Roman cent 
of Domitian. 

Tuesday, September twenty -eighth. I formerly wrote upon 
a book in which I designed to write a diary, the line "Nulla dies 
sine linea." Since then I have found out how difficult it was to 
write a line a day. From which I conclude that we should al- 
ways live so that upon each day of our existence, the recording 
angel might write something in our favor. And then at night 
we should examine ourselves in order that by so doing we might 
know whether or no we would be obliged to write with the Ro- 
man Caesar "I have lost a day." 

Wednesday, September tiventy -ninth. What further proof 
need we that man and woman were made to be man and wife. 
If the Bible itself is not proof, then the innate feeling which every 
human heart has for some dear partner of its happiness and 
sorrow. Let others revile woman and let them debase her as they 
think fit yet who will not say what a wide influence she wields. 
Woman possesses traits of character which man is ignorant of. 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 27 

Then let her have possession of our hearts and homes. We have 
just seen the comet. It is very large and beautiful and is in the 
west. I have never seen such a wonderful thing. Its tail is 
over twenty feet long. Father says we won't see another such 
for twenty years. It is strange, awful and grand. 

Fridaij, October first. I commenced German today. Some- 
how I cannot tell my mind has been directed to the study of 
coins. But what are coins but the memorial of past ages; what 
a monument of the instability of human work. The Pantheon, the 
Roman Circus, the temples of Greece — the fabric of men's handi- 
work have long since perished and yet the coins, their most in- 
significant of all their creations are the only monuments left to 
tell of the pride, the best of their works. 

Monday, October fourth. Profanity is, I think, to be dep- 
recated above all things but yet this day was I forced to listen 
for an hour to a conversation, every word of which was either 
obscene or profane and yet the speaker mentioned it as a dis- 
grace to this city that none of the obscenities had yet reached it. 
God grant that they never may. Today I took my first lesson 
in German from Mr. Sachtleben, he is a fine gentleman. 

Friday, October eleventh. The college library is a large 
building on the college campus. It is darkly colored and has 
about ten thousand books, most of which were donated by Mr. 
Frampton. The books are arranged in alcoves numbered with 
the letters of the alphabet. It is very pleasant and comfortable, 
and has a beautiful aspect inside although the collection of books 
is not very valuable. There are two large globes, the one of the 
heavens and the other of the earth, five feet in diameter. 

Tuesday, October twelfth. The Orphan Asylum is one of 
the pet institutions of Charleston. It is a very large and beau- 
tiful house on Calhoun Street. The building is very spacious and 
lofty and the city bell is placed in the steeple from which place 
the city can be seen to the best advantage. The children are well 
attended to and are well taught until they are of a suitable age 
to be apprenticed ; provision is made for a college education for 
those who are far advanced. There is a well executed statue of 
Pitt now disfigured and a beautiful bronze statue of Washing- 
ton. 

Thursday, October fourteenth. 'Tis not enough that we 
should exercise moderation in drinking, in clothing but also in 
eating. This I have found out and I have determined to exer- 
cise moderation in everything. 

Friday, October twenty-second. We (that is Presiy and I) 



28 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

have started a mimic museum containing a library of about one 
hundred books on languages, sciences, et cetera and which is by 
far the best part; second a collection of 130 coins of very many 
nations, the ancient department being represented by a single 
coin; third, a collection of ten worthless manuscripts; fourth, 
botany, a good herbarium ; fifth, chonchology ; sixth, mineralogy ; 
seventh, a menagerie of insects; eighth, relics, and ninth, auto- 
graphs; all of which are valueless. 

Monday, October twenty-fifth. I went to Louis to have a 
pair of shoes made for me and father, of course pays. I have a 
good and kind father. 

Monday, November first. Father gave me today Adler's Ger- 
man Dictionary. I have such a good father. 

Monday, November fifteenth. Today father gave me the 
desk that formerly belonged to dear mother. While you were 
here, mother, I did not love you as I ought but I love your mem- 
ory and will ever love it. 

Wednesday, November seventeenth. I went this afternoon 
up to Hoffs to have a pair of pants made for me and at night 
I went to the Chrestomathic Society of which I am an officer. 
If I could wish, or if I had Aladdin's lamp, one desire of mine 
would be to see Europe, Asia, Africa and America. The four 
greatest divisions of the globe. These are all my desires at pres- 
ent. I too would know what others know. I would see what 
others have seen. I would compare one nation with another and 
learn wisdom by experience. 

Friday, November nineteenth. how I long to know what 
I shall be or shall do in life. I hope God willing and all things 
taken into consideration to be a minister of God's holy word. 
When 0, when shall I settle down in life and try how bitter and 
aye, how sweet, too, are its waters. 

Monday, November tiventy -second. "God is a very, very 
present help in every time of trouble." I believe this as firmly 
as that I am now at this moment writing. Let infidels say what 
they will about the infinite Jehovah mixing in the affairs of puny 
mortals, yet I feel that the God of hosts has often mingled in my 
affairs, yet he has brought me from many difficulties and dan- 
gers, safe in body and mind and has answered many of my 
prayers. Blessed be God I know this; but how weak am I, so I 
thank and bless him for his kindness to me. 

Thursday, November tiventy-fifth. Ferdie came today after 
more than two years absence. If they had told me the moon had 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 29 

broken in half I would have hardly been more surprised; in fact 
I was very much surprised, so much so that I wouldn't believe 
Ferdie had come until I saw him and not then 'till I could pos- 
sibly doubt no longer. Ferdie is well traveled now and I hope 
he has come back for good though he says he has not. 

Wednesdaij, December first. I am not very highly esteemed 
at college though I do not know why. Surely I do not pretend 
too much and I know all I pretend to. I never cheat and it can- 
not be because I do not swear and steal and drink for others do 
not w^ho are well esteemed. 

Tuesday, December seventh. This morning I got up sooner 
than I have for a long time, and I felt the good effects of it all 
day long. In the afternoon I took my regular German lesson from 
Mr. Sachtleben. Arf ! 

Wednesday, December eighth. How little am I thought of. 
How everything I do is ridiculed. I will suffer it no longer, I 
will be independent ! Let others scorn me. I will scorn them ! 
Amen. 

Friday, December tenth. Today I went as usual to Mr. Sacht- 
leben but he begged to be excused and I excused him according 
to his wish. 

Saturday, December eleventh. 

0, I ivill dwell on a coral isle, 

With one I love the best. 

And there our time we ivould beguile, 

And be too fully blest. 

We'd ivalk along the sea-girt shore, 

Or seek the banyans shade; 

And of the world ive'd think no more. 

No more of it afraid. 

But all our talk woidd be of love. 

Such as the angels feel; 

And in its very depths ive'd rove 

Its hidden depths reveal. 

We'd talk of heaven and talk of God 

And oft his love we'd see 

How Jesus on this earth had had 

A sacrifice to be. 

Monday, December thirteenth, 

O what an influence vast, 
A single loord may have. 



30 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

But ivhen the lips has past 
Its end no poiver can save. 
'Tis like the unerring hall 
Sent by a practiced hand, 
Which one can ne'er recall 
Till it has reached its end. 

Christmas is near at hand. 

Wednesday, December fifteenth. I wish something would 
happen, something to excite all my nerves and make me feel all 
over like a new man. This world is full of all the same things. 

Monday, December tiventieth. I have come to the conclusion 
that slavery at best is a diabolical practice from reading Cap- 
tain Cunot's description of it. 

Friday, December thirty-first. that I could always live 
as though this day were my last but I cannot. And now on this 
the last day of this year let me pause and cast a scrutinizing 
glance over all my past life. I have spent another year and with 
it I trust have improved myself accordingly. But have I lived a 
Christian year. Have I drawn one year nearer to God? As this 
year has come to an end so also will my life finally draw to a 
close. 

COMET 

Hoiv many terrors does the comet make; 

Whilom a world upon its tail we see, 

A world, a toion, a continent, a lake 

Borne through the void by this great mystery 

Or else tve see it come with furious speed 

And strike full butt against some mundane sphere; 

Snmsh it to shivers, like a broken reed, 

And off again upon its wild career. 

Some see in it a Caesar's victory car; 

And bringing with it, pestilence and death; 

And pope and bishop joined in earnest prayer 

To drive away its pestilential breath. 

But in this mighty terror we but see 

The grand creation of our father God. 

Then let our pi'ayer to Him forever be, 

And see in nature but His truthful word. 



AGE FIFTEEN— 1858 31 



''INFLUENZY 



»> 



O, / would speak to thee a while 

And a.sA: why so viuch pain, 

O monster, mimic, demon vile, 

Why make me so insane? 

Why do I sneeze and snort and blow? 

Why mib 2vith cloth my nose? 

Why do the tears unwilling flow? 

Why looks my nose like rose? 

O, stop and liste7i to my tale 

Pass me not by unheeded 

For fear this single nose should fail 

More noses, fair are needed. 

Then give me two or give me more 

Or give me half a dozen score, 

O, never would I then repine, 

Apollo grant it, God divine. 

TO KATY J , . . 

You've asked me but to wHte a line 

With memories fraught; 
A verse wherein I should covibine 

Remembering thought; 
And if I cannot put it in verse 

To try and see. 
I'll write this line though very terse, 

^'Remember me." 

WILLIE J. 



CHAPTER TWO 



1859— Age 16 

Saturday, January first. Today is the beginning of another 
year. how earnestly do I pray and how strongly do I desire 
that I may live as becometh a man and a Christian. I will not 
despond if I have not equalled my expectations in all things. I 
will not despair but will still press on for the bright prize which 
lies before me. my God, help me I pray Thee this year to live 
as I ought and if its close will not find me in the land of the liv- 
ing, Oh, grant that I may employ my remaining time to Thy glory 
and my own good ; and do, if it shall please Thee, so ordain that 
on the last day of the departing year I can look back on my ac- 
tions in the dying year with unmingled pleasure and satisfaction. 
So help me God. For this year I will attempt to keep a neater 
and better journal and try to record with an impartial hand. 

Monday, January third. How vast and expansive is the 
world of thought. It stretches out before me like a vast plain, 
covered with flowers and luscious fruit, that he who will may 
come and pluck at pleasure. I seem too to see an iron gate, the 
gate which bars all not worthy of admission. I see, too, a stern 
watch-dog of truth for this garden contains only true, sublime 
and beautiful thoughts and I hope that I may obtain admittance 
within the walls and may walk and pluck at random the sweet 
fruits which grow therein which never fail. 

Tuesday, January eleventh. I intend studying six languages, 
English, Latin, Greek, German, French, Hebrew. I have almost 
perfected myself in English and am now engaged with Latin, 
Greek and German. As soon as I finish German I will try my 
hand at French and as soon as I am perfect in Greek I will begin 
the mellifluous Hebrew. 

Thursday, January thirteenth. Tonight there is a meeting 
of the two societies at college; once only have I been to this un- 
ion meeting and I would like to go again but I cannot as it takes 
place on our prayer meeting night. 

Saturday, January fifteenth. As I was coming from the 
Post Office today I had an opportunity of seeing a great many 
beautiful pictures at the Institute hall. 01 I do love to* look at 

33 



34 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

pictures ; it shows a greatness of soul and a sublimity of thought, 
existing even in this corrupted stage of the world. The painter 
is always an enthusiast. He must be or he is no artist. He must 
have greatness within before he can bring it out upon canvas. 

Sunday, January sixteenth. Principles are everything in 
life, a man without fixed principles and who does not adhere 
bravely to those principles does not deserve life; he is not only 
of no use to the world but is of positive harm for by his example, 
if his example is of any weight to others, he may and probably 
will harm many, many of those who are his boon companions, 
many who are his friends, and he will bring tears of sorrow to 
the eyes of those who care for his soul and his character and he 
will cause them to cry out frequently, it were better that he had 
never been born. God grant that this may never be my fate. 
I will try to live by fixed principles. 

Thursday, January tiuentieth. Last night was so beautiful 
a night that even now I seem to see it as I did when I and Johnny 
Caldwell were walking up to the college together. Orion flamed 
over our heads in deadly combat with the Bull ; while Sirius gleam- 
ed near us with unwonted lustre. Luna bright and full as the day 
when the evening stars sang together, shone over the eastern 
horizon driving before her the double ringed Saturn with his 
seven moons. Here and there a fleecy cloud, floating slowly 
along resembled a distant milky way while all around was as 
quiet as the day when Adam and Eve, the father and mother of 
all living sat alone in Paradise. it was a lovely sight, a sight 
worthy of its creator and to me only needed the moonlight field 
and the glassy lake to hold me in quiet rapture. 

Saturday, January tiventy -second. The days, the weeks, the 
years pass and we take no note of them. What a solemn thought. 
This day will never, never return again. We hourly lose our 
time and we never find it again ; we spend our yearls for less 
than they are worth and take no care whether our bargain be 
good or whether it be bad. We cast it away when we know we 
can never hoard it again. Every day is one day nearer our end. 
Alas all this is too true, too true. What a strange thing is my 
soul ; I cannot understand it. It is even to me strange and mys- 
terious. I seem to have two natures yet I know not wherein they 
differ. God, this knowledge is too wonderful for me. I can- 
not attain unto it. 

Monday, January tweyity-fourth. Perhaps in future days 
when looking o'er the scribblings of my college hours I might 
wish to know the routine of my daily life. I rise out of my bed, 
say at six or six-thirty and having dressed, etc. I read my Bible 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 35 

and begin my daily life, I review my college lessons and by the 
very fartherest am at college by half past nine; at that hour 
chapel bell rings and 1 undergo the drudgery of three hours reg- 
ular recitation. We are out by twelve-thirty and after talking 
a little while I set off for home and after reading the newspaper 
and writing my journal I begin my studying which lasts until 
five (about). After supper if I have no engagement, I read, 
study and spend the time, promiscuously employing myself and 
thus do the days roll on, tomorrow but the reflection of today and 
so will it be until graduation relieves me and I become the master 
and have others under me. 

Tnesdaj/, January twenty-fifth. I still think there is noth- 
ing pleasant in city life but oh, how unspeakably pleasant and 
beautiful is country life. 

Wednesday, January tiuenty -sixth. I am just out of bed for 
I have been sick for three days with pneumonia and I have come 
off second best. I feel as if I had been sick for a year but I don't 
know whether I be well yet for I have not seen the Doctor and 
I have arisen from my bed without leave or license. What a 
curious sensation is sickness, utter helplessness and prostration 
of the body and yet a strength of soul ; indeed the soul grows 
stronger as the body grows weaker. 

Sunday, January thirtieth. Let me picture this room as it 
is. Sarah sits near the fire with a book in her hand and ever 
and anon she applies her eyes more closely to her book but alas 
it is not to read but only to suppress a long drawn sigh. Ripley 
sits near her, a picture, rather an imitation of the picture of 
Melancholy, his own countenance a reflection of Sarah's only 
that a close observer could see a look of merriment in his eye. 
And I, at heart sad, yet overpowered with irrepressible desire for 
laughter at Sarah's long-drawn sighs and Ripley's good imita- 
tion (unknown to her) for Ferdie is going to Kansas. 

Wednesday, February second. The races, the races ! I am 
going up to the race-course, are you? **Yes." Such is the conver- 
station I hear all around me; everybody is full of the races, the 
horses, betting and gambling and I care for none of them. The 
races, what good is there in making two or more poor horses 
run themselves to death? Why, on earth don't they get two 
steamcars and set them a running? "No sport." O, no sport, 
eh! Put you on behind. "Dangerous." O, it is not dangerous 
to the horses and their riders to run at such a rate. "None of 
my look-out." Go heartless wretch and learn Philanthropy. 
"Well, but I can win money." Yes and lose it too and that is 



36 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

your lookout. "What's money to me?" It would be a great deal 
to the starving and dying poor. "I can do as I please with my 
money." It is wrong to use it for gambling. ''I made my own 
money." God gave it to you and God can take it from you again. 
"Mind your own business." Tis no use arguing with such breath- 
wasters. 

Thursday, Februarij third. Last night there was a meet- 
ing of our society and I was present as usual. I am beginning to 
think a little now on my future career in life. I am fast ap- 
proaching the close of my college life and it is time that I should 
begin to think of it. Two more years and I am out and then I 
do not know but that I will study at home a year, and then enter 
Columbia Seminary and study three years there; and may God 
grant that I may well fulfill the duties of the sacred office I am 
to enter. 

Friday, February fourth. Yesterday afternoon I took a walk 
with cousin Kate McKnight, a very pleasant walk it was. We 
went around to see Mr. Mikell's splendid residence and we were 
very much pleased with it. Cousin advised me to be a minister 
and to have a country church and I told her that she had found 
out my wish. May it be so. 

Saturday, February fifth. I begin to see a new purpose now 
in life. I see that life is not all a dream that 

''Life is real; life is earnest" 
I see too that we all live for some purpose, that we live not to be 
benefitted by the world but to benefit the world. We must live 
as examples to others. 

Saturday, February twelfth. Today I wrote a letter to Ben 
Pitman for his Phonographic Phrasebook. Phonography is a 
beautiful science. 

Sunday, February thirteenth. Today was our communion 
service and I loved them so much. They were all so sweet of 
heaven, all of them had my heart in them. Mr. Wills preached 
for us and I liked his sermon greatly. 

Monday, February fourteenth. I was just thinking today 
where would be our class two years hence. Echo only answered 
where. I declare now : we boys ought to appoint an historian of 
our class who should portray the different characters of each 
one who has ever been in the class giving a pen and ink likeness 
of the first and second honor men, of the greatest fool and the 
greatest wit, the standing and grand average of the class at the 
end of the terms, with the jokes perpetrated by each member of 
said class. 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 37 

Thursdai/, February seveiiteeiith. I have just received a let- 
ter from Mr. Woodruff all in Phonography and Oh, who can feel 
the thrill of pride and pleasure that thrilled through my soul on 
receiving it. I fell almost into exstatics. Mr. Woodruff praises 
me up a great deal for my knowledge of Phonography. 

Tuesdaii, February twenty-second. Sunday night saw an old 
room mate of mine whom I have not seen for two years, Carson 
Finley. He was with Presly and myself up at Mr. Goulding's 
and we were agreed all round that those times (though we knew 
it not) were fine times. All the information I could get from 
him about our old school mates is this : Clifford Joy is about 
town doing nothing and Joe Yates is studying for an M.D., and 
Joe Anger is at Wofford College and I at Charleston College, 
both trying for a D.D. Clarence Palmer is at The Citadel and 
little Harry Street is yet at the Public School. I do not know 
what Presly will be but Carsy is to be a merchant and Aston Cof- 
fin is at some college in Switzerland. I do not know what John- 
nie Heriot (I beg his pardon Mr. J. Heriot) is about now. And 
these are all, thank God, they are living yet. May they benefit 
the world. 

Monday, February twenty-eighth. I received "The Phono- 
graphic Phrasebook" from Pitman on Friday and I was very 
much pleased with it. His introduction is admirable. This book 
contains only good phrases. His Reporter's Companion contains 
3800 phrases besides a great amount of practicing matter. He 
also made me a present of the Book of Psalms. 

Tuesday, March first. "Seekest thou great things for thy- 
self? Seek them not." This is the word of the Lord. Lord 
help me to seek great things not for myself but for Thee. Help 
me to lay all my laurels, all my learning at thy feet and help me 
to look up to Thee as my friend and law giver. 

Friday, March fourth. I spoke today in the chapel for the 
first time. Everybody says I was terribly scared but of course 
I was not. The idea; I who have spoken four times before an 
audience of two thousand to be afraid of thirty boys! Not I! I 
was sick and feeling very badly the whole day and if I was pale, 
blame it on my headache. 

Sunday, March si.vth. Those words are still sounding in my 
ears. "Seekest thou great things for thyself, seek them not." It 
has always been one of my dreams to be distinguished. I have 
always been seeking great things for myself. To be honop^d, loved 
and respected by all has always been my greatest ambition and is 
it wrong to wish to strive for these? Are these great things? Will 



38 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

striving for them be seeking great things for myself? The ans- 
wer I fear is yes, though I would not have it so. ''Seekest thou 
great things for thyself, seek them not" and the divine command 
must be obeyed. I will not seek great things for myself; I will 
seek them for God. I will strive to lay all my laurels at Jesus 
feet and say to him "Lord, they are Thine." I will not be an in- 
different preacher, a medium man. I will strive and try not to 
gain great things for myself but to gain them for God. 

Wednesday, March ninth. I have just learned that our 
church has called Mr. Wells to take joint charge of our church. 
I do hope he will accept the call for if he does, I understand that 
he will be Bible class teacher. I have now an indifferent teacher 
but with Mr. Wills I will be "tres content." 

Friday, March eleventh. Today my heart was rendered glad 
by the prettiest letter imaginable from Mr. Woodruff and a pho- 
nographic package from Mr. B. Pitman. Really I am of some 
importance in the world, the brother of the inventor of phono- 
graphy writing to me. I have just been looking over my last 
year's journal and I found there the praises of phonography 
and almost in the same breath the praises of our pure and unde- 
filed religion. 

Monday, March fourteenth. Last night I went to hear my 
father preach before the Young Men's Christian Association and 
I can say I liked it better than any sermon I ever heard. I was 
perfectly carried away with and I liked it better and believe it to 
be better than any sermon I ever heard father preach. His text 
was "Remember thou art my first born, etc. . . unstable as 
water, thou shalt not excel." 

Tuesday, March fifteenth. Today is my birthday and as 
birthdays come but once a year I thought it worth noting. I 
weigh now one hundred and six pounds and am five feet six 
inches tall which I believe is pretty good for me. I am within 
a day or two of being a junior in college and since last year I am 
sure of my improvement. 

Saturday, March nineteenth. Saturday I wrote and sent an- 
other letter to Mr. Pitman, writing for his history of shorthand 
which I hope he has. I also sent a letter to Mr. Woodruff for 
which in due time I expect an answer. I write generally to Mr. 
Woodruff once a month. Phonography has placed me in a cur- 
ious position. All the senior year we only take down lectures. I 
will obtain mine verbatim and consequently they will be borrow- 
ed by those in my own class even by him whom all expect to take 
first honor from me. Thus phonography has enabled me to be 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 39 

more than usually generous and God grant that it may make good 
use of the opportunity which I have. 

Saturday, March twenti/'Sixth. Last night I went round to 
see Robert Mustard. I spent a very pleasing evening with him 
and his mother. He gave me my first lesson in chess and by ten 
o'clock 1 was deep in the mysteries of King and Queen, Knight 
and Rook, Pawn and Bishop but I was reluctantly compelled by 
the lateness of the hour to return home. I do like chess. It is 
something new to do for a change. 

Sunday, March twenty-seveyith. At night I followed father's 
company to St. Peter's Church to hear Mr. Girardeau preach be- 
fore the Y. M. C. A. The sermon, it was universally agreed, was 
a fine one but terrible part was that he preached one hour and 
a quarter and let out just as it began to pour down and all but 
I came home in an omnibus. 

Monday, March twenty 'eighth. Today I met Mr. Brandt 
who was my stock boss while I was at Browning and Leman's dry 
goods store as an under clerk. What a change has come over 
things since then. Then I was nearing my fourteenth birthday, 
now I approach my eighteenth. I am really getting old without 
knowing it. Eighteen! Eighteen! I was declared with all my 
class to be the junior class of Charleston College. 

Wednesday, March thirtieth. Lavinia told me this morning 
that a gentleman was at the door wishing to see me. When I 
went down who should I see but my old friend and phonographic 
correspondent Mr. Woodruff. We talked phonography and pho- 
netics to each other for a quarter of an hour when he had to go. 
He is going to order a copy of Pitman's New Phonographic Test- 
ament for me for I need some Sunday reading. I am second in 
my class. 

Thursday, March thirty-first. Yesterday I received from 
Mr. Pitman his glorious work, the History of Shorthand. My 
pleasure and surprise on receiving it is unfanciable. I was so 
delighted that for a long time I couldn't raise courage to break 
the wrapper for fear of its not being that which yet I hoped it 
was. I will not attempt a criticism of this work not perhaps on 
account of its uncriticizeableness but because I hold this to be 
a self evident fact, that we ought not to criticize that which we 
love, for finding out its faults may lessen our admiration of its 
beauties and truths; but I affirm that phonography defies criti- 
cism. I ordered a Manners from Pitman today. 

Friday, April first. Today, a year ago, the love of pho- 
nography was born within me; in fact today is my phonographic 



40 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

birthday. Last year on April first as I was in Smith and Whil- 
den's book store Lindsay showed me Pitman's Manual of Pho- 
nography. Aunt Abbie bought it for me. I began then to study 
it with interest and I love it just as much now. 

Saturday, April ninth. If I had only as much learning and 
piety as Dr. Wills and Dr. Smythe appear to have I could count 
myself a happy man but is it not permitted to me to strive after 
wisdom as they have and to pray for God's blessing as they have 
done and possibly I too may arrive at Grace through Jesus. 
Lord! Thou knowest how unworthy I am; Thou knowest all my 
short comings and Thou art able to do what Thou wilt. Then 
God, father almighty, purify me, I pray. Cleanse me and I shall 
be clean. Amen. 

Sunday, April seventeenth. Can it be our Father God has 
called me to preach his glad tidings of great joy to the world and 
where shall I go? To whom shall I speak the good news? East, 
west, north, south, wherever God calls me only let my Captain 
and my compass be with me, and 'tis all the same to me. 

Monday, April eighteenth. College reopened today to the 
joy of some and grief of others. I am both glad and sorry ; glad 
for some **of the spice of life" variety and yet sorry because I 
cannot spend the time my own way. The books we study this 
term are Olmsted's Astronomy, Juvenal, Whately's Logic, Rhet- 
oric, Agassiz's Zoology and Sophocles, Oedipus Tyrannus. 

Thursday, April twenty-first. What I have to say today 
chiefly concerns chess. Last night before and after the meeting 
of our society I had my chess match with Billy Glover. The 
match was to consist of five games but we only played three 
that being considered sufficient to decide and it did effectually 
decide but that did not keep me from telling my tale although I 
got awfully beaten in every one. This morning I played a game 
with Robert Kelly and we did have a tough fight. I never fought 
so good in my life and my valor was rewarded with success, I 
bore away the laurels. I like Mr. Holmes' lectures more and more 
every day. I anxiously await the coming of his next lecture on 
next Wednesday. 

Tuesday^ April twenty-sixth, I love college far more now 
than I ever did before. Last term I was wishing to leave, now 
though the studies are much harder I would rather work my 
way through than leave. Our order for recitation is as follows : 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 



41 





Monday-Tuesday 




1st hour 


Middleton 


Logic 


2nd hour 


Hawkesworth 


Juvenal 


3rd hour 


Gibbes 

Wednesday 


Astronomy 


1st hour 


Holmes 


Zoology 


2nd hour 


Porcher 


Rhetoric 


3rd hour 


Gibbes 

Thursday 


Astronomy 


1st hour 


Middleton 


Logic 


2nd hour 


Porcher 


Rhetoric 


3rd hour 


Holmes 

Friday 


Zoology 


1st hour 


Middleton 


Logic 


2nd hour 


Hawkesworth 


Sophocles 


3rd hour 


Chapel exercises 





Wednesday, April twenty -seventh. Tonight as usual there 
will be a meeting of the Chrestomathic Society and I don't think 
it would do much harm to append to the notice ''all the members 
are respectfully invited to attend." Nearly two years ago I join- 
ed the society and oh I the fun that the fellows had out of me 
with the "greasy goat and the greasy water!" Tis really a sight 
to see and a sensation to feel but I am going to do my share to- 
night in drowning some "fresh." 

Saturday, April thirtieth. I can't help thinking sometimes 
of the long ago when I was so happy, so free. When I played 
in the greenwood and revelled in the pleasures of friendship. 

Wednesday, May fourth. I received yesterday a very pleas- 
ant and flattering letter from Mr. Woodruff; in fact his praises 
are enough to make a modest man faint. I did not know until 
he told me it that I had so much perseverance and energy in me 
and to tell the truth I have some suspicions of the truth of it. 
Of course Mr. Woodruff's letter was in shorthand, phonographic 
shorthand — as if a phonographer w^ould dare to write to me in 
anything else. I answered his today. 

Tuesday, May tenth. Tonight Mr. Gibbes has summoned our 
class to attend college at half past six o'clock to see the planets 
at his observatory and with his telescope. Jupiter, Saturn and 
the Moon are among some of the objects which are to kttract our 
attention. Our lessons in Zoology and Astronomy are among 
those which interest me most, although both are very difficult. 
Chess has lately taken hold of me and Oh! what an iron grasp 



42 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

it has. I do wish I could break away from it; it does waste en- 
tirely too much time. It is too entrancing, too captivating and 
such a pleasant game and after all what use is it of ? I can think 
of no benefit or harm it actually confers. "Time well spent" is a 
world of happiness in itself and I do wish I could enjoy the satis- 
faction of knowing that my time is well spent. 

Wednesday, May eleventh. Last night though not very clear 
was yet clear enough for us to make our observations through 
Mr. Gibbes' telescope. Jupiter first engaged our attention and 
we saw him with his four moons and belts. The earth turned 
around so fast that Jupiter ran away every minute or two and we 
had to bring him back again by turning up the telescope. Sat- 
urn was a sight to see although he only had one moon visible. 
His ring was engaging. Castor, the finest double star and a 
quadruple star in the **big dipper" were both new to me. But the 
moon ''where will the flowing numbers end that speak its praise," 
Mount Plato and Erastosthenes were both visible. The sun just 
rising on the light-capped spots, seemed like light, rising in dark- 
ness. The shadows of the mountains were very distinct and val- 
leys, mountains, plains and seas were visible. This is my first 
sight of these objects, so close. 

Tuesday, May seventeenth. Phonography and Chess on the 
same page. I did not mean to. 

Friday, May tiventieth, I confidently believe that our class 
is the best class in college and that I would rather be in it than 
in any other there. We ought to have a history of our class, be- 
ginning "The junior class of 1859 embraces the following roll of 
names: John D. Caldwell, E. Everett Edgerton, William P. Ja- 
cobs, Robert S. Kelly, Macmillan King, Mitchell King, Stiles R. 
Mellichamp, E. M. Seabrook, Henry Sparnick, Willis Wilkerson, 
the following names have at times been connected with this so- 
ciety of young men : W. Edings Ravenel, Moses Martin. 

Saturday, May twenty-first. I was elected the quarterly or- 
ator before the Chrestomathic Society last Wednesday night and 
I cannot for the life of me think of what the subject was for de- 
bate. Next Wednesday night and I am one of the debaters. I 
declare! I do not know what is the matter with me today. I 
am sleepy, lazy, dreamy. I feel like — like — doing nothing and 
like sitting back in my chair and dreaming. Oh, dear! what can 
the matter be with Mr. Woodruff that he does not write. 

Tuesday, May twenty-fourth. I learned today my marks on 
Professor Gibbes. They are 10-9-9-9 so that my average this 
far on his branch is 9.3 about. If I can keep this or elevate it 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 43 

a little I will become very much pleased. I begin to love intellec- 
tual Philosophy. 

Monday, May thirtieth. Quite a series of chess events has 
happened of late in our community. In the first place some of 
us boys have formed a chess club called the **Morphy Chess Club" 
and we intend inviting him to come and honor us with his pres- 
ence. I suppose of course that he won't. In the second place 
we intend having tournaments every month or two to try the 
skill of the members. Of course to award prizes to the best. And 
In the third and last place, Presly and I intend printing and edit- 
ing a monthly Chess Magazine which of course will improve us 
greatly? This afternoon I attend the first meeting of the so- 
ciety. May it prosper and make it worthy of its illustrious name. 
Health to the Morphy Chess Club! 

Tuesday, May thirty-first. I have begun to get right inter- 
ested in our studies at college and now that I play Chess so much 
that I have made it a rule never to touch board or men until I 
have studied or read four hours daily. I think that four hours 
is as much as my health will permit. 

Thursday, June second. I intend in conjunction with Pres- 
ly forming the nucleus of a magazine which will we hope outdo 
any attempt ever made by us as yet. Its main object will be 
chess though not its whole object. I do not know whether it is 
worth the trouble, however. Although I may some day be con- 
nected with some paper and I would not like to be ignorant, en- 
tirely ignorant of typesetting and so forth. 

Friday, June tenth. Today was my debut on the college 
stage, that is, with an original composition and I must say that 
it did not give me very great pleasure for though I have partially 
committed it to memory, yet I was in a pretty fix for I had lost 
my speech the night before and it is now forever consigned to 
forgetfulness. If I was to judge the effect of my speech by the 
number of congratulations I obtained, my effort was eminently 
successful. But college congratulations from such sources are 
generally ironical! 

Wednesday, June fifteenth. "Montes parturiunt, mus na- 
scitur." I did not join the others of the class in their proposed 
rebellion and alas, what a persecuted mortal I expect to be for 
two years to come. Nevertheless, God almighty knows that I aim- 
ed to do right, far from following my inclination I opp'<5sed it. 

Thursday, June sixteenth. Well, I declare, what new notion 
will get hold of me. I am editor of a Chess Monthly, to be print- 
ed by Harper and Calvo. Moses went dow-n with me last Tues- 



44 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

day to see about having it printed and we found out that we 
could have it printed for five dollars. The first number will be 
issued on the first of July. 

Friday, June seventeenth. Rebellion seems to be the order 
of the day. The students have just got safely through one awful 
rebellion and now they wish to plunge headlong into the foam- 
ing waters of contention. What on earth is the matter with the 
students. They must have something in them. And the way of 
the rebellion is this! The college cadets wish holiday to go on a 
maroon on this Friday coming and consequently they wish to 
take holyday on that day but the professors have refused to give 
it to them and so rather than give up the maroon they intend 
taking holyday! Foolish boys! I wonder if they know what 
they are about. Really though they cannot be so silly as to think 
of such a foolish and impolite contrivance. 

Sunday, June twenty-sixth, I am now sitting in my room, 
listening to the splashing rain which is hurrying from heaven to 
earth and trying to think of the great God who made it all. There ! 
see how vivid that streak of lightning was and how piercing the 
echoing and all of the thunder and now the rain begins to fall 
faster and faster and the clouds grow still darker while the grand 
artillery of heaven makes its discharges frequent and more fre- 
quent still. And who made all this? Who but the triune God, 
the great and glorious maker and governor of the universe, the 
mysterious **I am that I am." And can it be the same Jehovah 
that fashioned the powers of the ''Infinite," was He who so lov- 
ed finite and evanescent man that He gave His only begotten 
and well loved son that he might die for us, that he might be 
offered up, a sacrifice to satisfy the demands of justice? The 
same, the very same! Ought we not to love Him with fear and 
trembling? 

Monday, June twenty-seventh. Monday is fourth of July 
and the students have prevailed on me to parade with them, and 
on that day I am going to follow behind the drum and make a 
joyful noise with my rifle to the music of a military step. How 
ought our hearts to glow with pride as we witness the celebra- 
tion of the great day of liberty and how ought our spirits to flow 
evenly as we think of the glorious land of liberty; the land of the 
majestic goddess. 

Tuesday, June twenty-ninth. Yesterday afternoon I went 

down with Ottolengine Moses, my brother Editor and obtained 

the proof sheet of the PhiUdorian. You can't guess how much 

I we were at seeing our names in print. It really seemed 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 46 

like a new order of things. I used to think that it would be a 
very easy thing to conduct a newspaper but lately I have slightly 
changed our opinion. It is not quite as easy a thing as we had 
thought it would be. It requires a great deal of skill to conduct 
a paper of any sort right well. Though I must say that it is easy 
to think about conducting one. 

Wednesdai/, June twenty -ninth. Mr. Holmes has not return- 
ed yet and it is very likely that he will not return very soon. Mr. 
Hawkesworth, wonder of wonders! was sick today. The first 
time he has been absent from college for twenty-nine years. 
Some-thing is going to happen. 

Thursday, June thirtieth. In about a month there will be 
no more of our family in Charleston. They will all be away. 
Father, cousin Kate, Presly and I will be in Edisto. Aunt Abby, 
Ripley and Minnie in Sumpter. Uncle Wheelock in Maine; Uncle 
Edward in England or France and Ferdy in Kansas so that our 
house will be left desolate. Ripley and Aunt Abby left for Sump- 
ter this morning. I will remain in Charleston for a while yet. 
I begin to feel an oppressive sensation about my chest. My 
nerves are getting loose but very sharp; my heart beats with 
sudden jerks and my hands tremble. And why? Examinations 
approach! Awful words! The coming examination is the hard- 
est of the whole course and if I pass it I may count myself as 
through. 

Sunday, July third. Last night I attended an extra meeting 
of the Young Men's Christian Association of which I am an ac- 
tive member. I pray God that He may prosper all the doings of 
this association and may they never fall into disrepute. 

Monday, July fourth. I was up this morning at three o'clock 
"armed and equipped according to law" to go among the mili- 
tary and show my pretty ( ?) face to the admiring multitudes. 
Well, it was about six o'clock before we arrived safe and sound. 
("Tutus corpore et mente") at the appointed rendezvous. I 
must say I was tired when after our parading exertions I ar- 
rived again at home, i. e. the college green; and still more tired 
when after our salutes (including, of course, powdered faces and 
hands) I arrived broken down at my own domicile; but cannot 
coffee easily cure such complaints? 

Wednesday, July sixth. The Philidorian is beginning to get 
its share of flattery. Just after closing my journal yesterday I 
received a very flattering letter from the Chess Editor of the 
Courier; just see what the Courier says of us in this morning's 
issue. "At the same time we take pleasure in noticing another 



46 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

advocate for public favor in a neat little monthly called the 
PHILIDORIAN, handsomely printed by Messrs. Harper and 
Calvo in this city, w^ho so well understand the job and edited by 
two of our most promising aspirants to Chess fame. We ven- 
ture to assert from the taste and care which characterizes its 
pages that it must soon grow in favor. Admirably adapted to 
the scope of the little ones, it combines as well the advantages 
of solid matter which can but be interesting and entertaining to 
those of a more mature age." And some more of that same sort. 
Father has just given me a bill and says if I collect it I may have 
it. 

Saturday, July ninth. I have become deeply interested in 
professor Gager's expedition in his great balloon "the Atlantic." 
It must be a glorious thing to mount up in a balloon and look 
down upon the toiling man below and to laugh at his wonders. 
Yes I would like to go up in a splendid one, to feel free as the 
wind, to fly on the wings of the wind. The Atlantic travelled 
1,100 miles in 19 hours. What a glorious speed! I prophesy, 
notwithstanding all doubters, that there will be regular balloon 
voyages between the old and new world across the continents and 
even round the globe. It can be done and will be. Now the cir- 
cumnavigation of the globe takes three years; a balloon such as 
The Atlantic can accomplish it in three weeks. 

Monday, July eleventh. I succeeded on Saturday in collect- 
ing the bill due me from Mr. Pelot but it soon dwindled down 
considerably ... I promised in my last letter to Mr. Woodruff 
to get up a southern Phonographic Institute on a similar plan 
to the one in England and Cincinnati and to publish a Phono- 
graphic Institute. Of course he will take it as a good joke though 
I did not intend it as such. I am just about to write to Ben Pit- 
man. 

Monday, July eighteenth, I have just received a letter from 
Mr. Henry, a great New York Chess player who desired to know 
our terms. I sent a copy of the Philidorian to him and I hope 
that he will subscribe. We intend printing some Chess diagrams. 

Friday, July twenty-niyith. The second number (perhaps it 
is the last) is out and is favorably noticed in the Mercury and 
Courier. 

Saturday, July thirtieth. Nearly all yesterday I was trying 
my best to sell the Philidoi-ian but have not succeeded extra well. 

Friday^ A puM nineteenth. I had almost forgotten to record 
as usual my report for last term with which I am greatly dissatis- 
fied, it being in grand average far less than I expected and con- 





Term 


Oral 


Logic 


7.6 


9 


Inv. Phil. 


8.1 




Classics 


9 


9 


Astronomy 


8.5 


9.5 


Rhetoric 


8.3 


8 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 47 

fidently believed I deserved. I do not now know my position in 
the class. 

Written 

7 
9 

9 
9 

My grand average was only 8.4 which is very bad for me. It is 
emphatically the worst report I have ever received. Last night 
a party of us boys went in bathing but I was so scary of sharks 
that I did not go out far and came out soon. This cowardice is 
a positive inconvenience. 

Sunday, August tweyity -first. I do wish I was a better boy, 
God knows. I wish that God was my God that Jesus was my 
saviour and that I was His son, that I dwelt in the bosom of Him 
whose "love sticketh closer than a brother's." God be my God. 

Lord show me Thy way, teach me to walk under the shadows 
of Thy wing. Perhaps it might afford me interest hereafter to 
remember the manner in which I spend the Sabbath. I rise at 
six and read until eleven when I go to church and read again 
until eight when we have service again. There is none in the 
afternoon. We have one weekday exercise. Wednesday night 
lecture. The congregation is very fair, both morning and night. 

1 like father's sermons. 

Sunday, August twenty-eighth. I listened to father both 
morning and night, though I was anything but attentive. I am 
afraid that God was not in all my thoughts. Father preaches 
well, I like his preaching. I love it. It is plain, clear, to the 
point and I will be well, very well contented if I could but write 
as he does. I hope someday to be a minster but oh, how unfit I 
am. 

Wednesday, August thirty-first. (Edisto Island). This af- 
ternoon I spent a very pleasant fifteen minutes on horseback. I 
am no rider, I have never ridden but I want to learn to ride and 
and drive. I will need to know some of these days and I had best 
be learning now. 

Sunday, September fourth. This morning I partook of the 
communion at the church. Oh what an impressive scene it was. 
Mr. Lee spoke so pathetically "Standing" as he says* "here on 
the brink of death, as it were on the border of life and death" 
he most earnestly pressed on all to come now to Jesus. "Never" 
said he "may I see you more. listen to an old man's words 
and make your peace with God." 



48 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Wednesday, September fourteenth. I think that I begin 
to feel myself at home when I am on horseback. I forgot to 
mention one fact about my ride last Monday. The horse began 
to caper at a great rate and I could not imagine what could be the 
matter when on turning around I found a little black boy hang- 
ing on his tail! After driving him off I was compelled to make 
the woods echo with a horse-laugh. Expect to go rowing to- 
night. 

Sunday, September eighteenth. I love, too, to hear father's 
sermons and I only wish that he had a country parsonage and 
church. I do hope that if God shall make of me a minister ; that 
he will place me to work in some quiet country place where the 
people are all as sociable and friendly as they are in this place. 
Surely, then, my lines would have fallen to me in pleasant places. 
I do most ardently desire to become a minister and to labor to 
do God's service but 0, Lord, thou knowest me that I am the 
most unworthy of all Thy servants. 

Sunday September twenty-fifth. I was kept at home all 
day by indisposition and improved the opportunity I had in mor- 
alizing on my own condition. I concluded that it was high time 
that, God willing, the chief aim and end of my life should be to 
be of service and glory to my maker, to love Him and do His 
bidding. I concluded to be a man, free, active, unselfish as a 
generous youth, bold, zealous, honest, unflinching as a man. I 
will be a servant and adorer of my maker ; always relying on Him 
to the uttermost. 

Thursday, September tiventy -ninth. (Charleston). I would 
like to live in a city where there are a plenty of public edifices, 
museums, libraries, galleries of art and antiquities. It is in that 
direction all my city tastes tend. In the country I am a different 
man. There I love company and out-door exercise. Raised in 
the city I would certainly become a minister-antiquary; in the 
country I would certainly degenerate into a farmer-naturalist. 
Bred up in both city and country I would be a curious admixture 
of odds and ends, loving the ministry and nature. I trust how- 
ever, that I will be educated in the city and settled in the coun- 
try. 

Friday, September thirtieth. This evening father called me 
into his room and you couldn't guess what he asked me. "Willie" 
said he, "Willie how would you like a mother?" I was dumb- 
founded. And so father is going to get married to Miss Carrie 
Lee! Well! Now I do declare! I will love her and honor her, 
I know. 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 49 

Saturchuj, October eighth. I will graduate at college when I 
am just nineteen. For six months I will read and recruit and in 
September 1861 I will enter Columbia Seminary where I will 
graduate in 1864 at the age of 22. I hope to be a minister by 
1865 and then I will — no matter what. 

Thursday, October thirteenth. Last night I did something 
worthy of record. I delivered the quarterly oration before the 
Chrestomathic Society. It was greatly applauded and if I may 
believe appearances, it was very much liked. But I have not for- 
gotten that appearances are often deceitful. I was the first quar- 
terly orator of our class. I was also the first monthly orator 
from the class. I have been in college now two and a half years 
and have never got an unexcused failure or even an excused 
failure from any cause but absence. I have also been two and a 
half years in my society without even once being fined. 

Friday, October twenty -first. Last year it seemed to me 
that I was not much liked but I begin to think that this was not 
the case. I have, as the saying is ''found my level" and that level 
is just where I would wish it to be. 

Thursday, October twenty-seventh. Today is Thanksgiving 
day and of course we had a holyday which I occupied in study-, 
ing and writing. 

Sunday, October thirtieth. I have chosen for my year-text 
"As a man thinketh, so is he." I long to preach. 

Monday, October thirty-first. It seems that father's tastes 
have been inherited by me more than by any of his other child- 
ren. Father has expressed his desire that I should become his 
representative. God grant that I may be a worthy representa- 
tive and help me to do my best. 

Tuesday, November first. Father arrived in Charleston to- 
day with mother and a very nice mother she is. I am sure I will 
love her, yes, for I do love her now with all my heart. She looks 
just like father's proper wife. Oh, may she love me as truly as 
I do now love her. As soon as she had taken possession of her 
room father called me in and said, "Willie, is this mother or 
Miss Carrie Lee?" What could I answer but "Mother." Yes, 
she shall love me and I her. I have to go to college tomorrow 
although I do think that I ought not to. Why? Because I don't 
want to. Our lesson, too, is all about stars and constellations 
when a far brighter star has just entered my hemisphere and it 
requires all my observation. 

Wednesday, November second. Mother has received some 



50 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

very beautiful wedding presents and I am sure she deserves them 
but what have I to give? Alas, not a cent have I. All that I 
can give is my love, unworthy as it is, dear mother, I give it to 
you, for I cannot withhold it from you. 

Monday, November seventh. I saw through father's tele- 
scope 12 spots on the sun, 6 large ones each attended by a small 
one, in a row along the southern hemisphere, the line they form- 
ed being concave toward the north. I also see by the daily Cour- 
ier that a new planet has been added to the solar system by name 
Mnemosyne. 

Tuesday, November eighth. I received a letter from my 
phonographic friend, Mr. Woodruff, the other day and I feel 
very much pleased at the fresh prospects which are opening up 
before him. He gave me an account of my future school house. 
He is very fond of Mr. Thornwell and affirms that he would 
be willing almost to turn Presbyterian for his sake. He offered 
me a position as reporter to the legislature, if I would accept it. 
Of course I would if I could but I feel my inability to fill the ob- 
ligations that office would place on me. Besides I expect to go to 
Edisto this winter. 

Tuesday, November fifteenth. I received a visit from Mr. 
Woodruff this morning, who, of course I am always glad to see. 
He came to make me an offer w^hich I will very gladly receive 
into consideration. Dr. Gibbes of the South Carolinian offered 
me fifty dollars and expenses for three weeks, reporting for him 
in Columbia at the Senate house. I very glady accept it. Here 
then is one opening for me to procure a little money for future 
use. Fifty dollars is no small sum to me and at ordinary school 
teaching such as I expected to undertake would have required 
three months to amass. And even then, it would be very hard 
work. 

Saturday, November tiventy -sixth. Away, away, on the 
wings of the wind, I am hurrying over hill, over dale, speeding 
as fast as st^am can carry me to Columbia. Ridgeville dined, 
looked around, counted three pigs and a cow, Orangeburg saw 
a carriage, a lady and a gentleman, a very pretty wee-bit of a 
town, all the fences are painted white. Branchville, three and a 
half o'clock, felt hungry and dined, don't know whether it was 
chicken or pig I was eating, called it beef. Columbia, raining, 
rained all day, lodged at the City Hotel. Came to the conclusion 
that Columbia is a muddy place. Introduced all around. 

Sunday, November twenty -seventh. A more minute exami- 
nation of Columbia leads me to the conclusion that it is lovely 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 61 

in the spring. Last night Mr. Woodruff, introduced me to the 
Carolmiari office. State market, the various hotels, the bank, 
the post office, the Liberty pole, Mr. Peter Glass etc. Senators 
Cannon, Burdett, etc. 1 have a very nice room, one bed, table, 
chair, trunk and two standing up places but very nice and tidy. 
I spent Sunday differently from home; I have to stay in my 
room all day to avoid low society. I attended Dr. Thornwell's 
church today and a very able discourse was delivered by Dr. 
Howe. It is very rainy, the regular session weather. 

Thursdcuj, December first. I do begin to feel a little more 
confident that I did first. Indeed I do not feel like throwing 
up my commission now as I did on Monday. In fact my reports 
must be good as they have been copied entire by the Charleston 
Courier and Mercury, I expect to make twenty five dollars by 
this trip of mine. Lately I have become extensively acquainted. 

Friday, December second. This morning I went to the Sem- 
inary with Mr. Alexander a young student of said Seminary. 
And I was very glad that I went for I saw four students with 
whom I am now acquainted. Buist, Banks, Law and who do 
you think? George Petrie, whom I have not seen for four years. 

Sunday, December fourth. I have had a very, very pleasant 
day. I went round to Dr. Thornwell's church and heard an ex- 
cellent sermon from Dr. Leland. While at church I met Dr. 
Thornwell's pupils of the Seminary, Tom Law and George Petrie 
who invited me to come round and dine with them. I did so 
with pleasure. Tom explained everything at the Seminary. Af- 
ter dinner I went to hear the good, old Dr. Thornwell preach a 
beautiful sermon on the authenticity of the Christian Bible. I 
spent the evening at home. Mr. Woodruff's is a noisy family. 

Tuesday, December si.vth. After all my work was done I 
went to the Telegraph office. This is the first time I ever went 
into a Telegraph office and of course I became acquainted as 
quickly as possible with all the what's and why's. The operator 
says that we can transmit messages as fast as we can write. 
I thought it took much longer. I didn't get home till midnight. 

Wednesday, December seventh. We had some grandiloquent 
speeches on Disunion in the Senate today. I do wish that 
the Senate would adjourn, sine die on the 20th. 

Thursday, December eighth. That was a most violent de- 
bate yesterday in the Senate on the subject of Harper's Ferry. 
I do believe that I was awfully a secessionist but now I am a 
strong unionist. I would not see one quill plucked from the 



52 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

wing of that proud bird which is emblazoned over our Senate 
Hall. I do not believe that the people of the North are half so 
bad as the papers make them appear. I do love the whole, yes 
the whole union. 

Friday, December ninth. I heard a glorious speech from 
Mr. Hampton, on the slave trade. He was much opposed to it and 
argued the cause of the constitution and the South so nobly that I 
love him for it. 

Sunday, December eleventh. I am now sitting near Mr. 
Woodruff's fire with the whole family around me. In church I 
sit with the Seminary students. 

Friday, December tiventy -third. I left Columbia yesterday 
morning at five o'clock and had with Mr. Woodruff's aid to car- 
ry my trunk to the depot. 

Sunday, December tiventy -fifth. Merry Christmas to all, 
but none to me. I attended Dr. Smyth's church and he preached 
an anti-Christmas sermon, saying that it was an occasion on 
which we should rather weep than rejoice because today the Lord 
of all was born to a life of misery imposed by us upon him. But 
it seems otherwise to me. I rejoice because on this day, Jesus 
was born for sinners, for me. Is it not a fit subject for rejoicing 
that the Great God died for me and now I live. 

Thursday, December tie enty -sixth. But very soon the time 
will come when I must bid farewell to the classic walls of Charles- 
ton College. And whither then shall I turn? I had almost for- 
gotten to mention that I have begun to take singing lessons in the 
School of Sacred Music of the Y. M. C. A. 

Saturday, December thirty-first. And now I have come to 
the end of the year. Tonight, 1860 is born in the grave of '59. 
This year of my life has been a very changeable year to me and 
I might say to all of us. During this year I have been twice 
away from home for some length of time. I have gained more 
experience and confidence, more worldly wisdom. Have I grown 
wiser in heavenly things? Let me diligently inquire into my 
heart and ask. Am I better now than I was one year ago? Oh, 
that I might say "yes." I must say I fear not. Lord, grant me 
my prayer for the coming year. 

PRAYER FOR 1860 

O Lord God unto whom all hearts are open, all desires known, 
look kindly down on a wayward child who knows not how to pray. 
Ble.sH mo. ovon mo also. Oh. my father. Give me a new heart, 



I 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 53 

and renew a right spirit within. Strengthen me in good works. 
Lead me through all the temptations which may surround me in 
the coming year and help me in all the dispensations of Thy prov- 
idence to exclaim. Thy will be done. Oh, bless me with the op- 
portunities of Thy Holy Spirit. Oh, Father, be a father and 
saviour unto me. Prosper my worldly affairs as far as seemeth 
good in Thy sight and so far, prosper all the secret desires of 
my heart. This and far more would I ask through Jesus Christ 
whom may I always love. Amen. 

January nineteenth. I am resolved: 

1. To live by fixed principles which are founded on the holy 
scriptures. 

2. To read my Bible and pray every morning and evening. 

3. Always to be subordinate to superiors and to honor, obey 
and love my father and never do anything which he 
would disapprove. 

4. Never to do anything of which I may be afterward 
ashamed. 

5. Never to be ashamed to do right, and to hold to the truth. 

6. Always to come out on the Lord's side and to oppose the 
Devil. 

7. Never to be idle and to be always punctual to my prom- 
ises or duties. 

8. Never to do anything of the rectitude of which I am 
doubtful. 

9. To be obliging, liberal, kind, humble and patient of evil 
in sight of God and all men. 

10. Always to be diligent and to employ my time well. 

11. To live with an eye single to God's glory and my own 
good. 

12. To celebrate the day of the Lord with works suitable 
to the day. 

13. Above all things to curb my temper ; and to try to attain 
a mildness of manner even to him who injured me, bodily 
or in worldly goods. 

14. To care for opinions and desires only so far as I can do 
so without endangering my principles. 

15. To be honest and to have a good name with my fellow- 
men, remembering that as I act well or evil, the word 
of God may rise or fall into disrepute. 

16. Never to buy what I cannot pay for or what is -qseless 
to me and always to pay my debts to a scrupulous degree. 



54 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



17. To be careful of everything I borrow and to return it in 
the same condition in which I received it. 

18. To return good for evil. 

19. To be exact in the performance of my duties. 

20. Always to think before I speak and never to strike a blow 
unless where necessary or in self defense. 

21. To be at peace with all the world and have all the world 
at peace with me. 

22. To remember that life is but a span and that one mo- 
ment may hurl me into eternity; that because of this 
I should so live that at death I may look back on a life 
well spent in the service of Him who died for me. 

W. P. JACOBS. 

Reports received at each examination by W. P. Jacobs. 

Freshman Class 



1. No. 1 


July 31, 1854. 








Term 


Oral 


Written 


Classics 


9 


9 


9 


Geometry 


8.9 


10 


— 


Algebra 


8.8 




9.5 


History 


6 


8 


8.6 






General Average 8.9 


2. No. 2 


March 26th, 1858 






Classics 


9 


9 


9 


Geometry 


8.6 


10 




Algebra 


8.9 




10 


History 


6.6 


8 


9 






General 


Average 8.9 




Sophomore 


Class 




:i. No. 1 


July 31, 1858. 








Term 


Oral 


Written 


Classics 


9 


9 


9 


Algebra 


9.3 


i_ 


9.5 


Trigonometry 


9.1 


~~ 


10 


Etymology 


6.7 


9 


8 






General 


Average 8.8 


4.— No. 2 


March 25th, 1859. 






Classics 


9 


9 


9 


• ra 


8.7 


« 


10 


i ngonometry 


9.3 


— 


10 



^ -nic Sections 9 

vmology 8.6 



9 

7 



General Average 8.8 



AGE SIXTEEN— 1859 56 

Junior Class 

5._No. 1 July 29th, 1859. 

Logic 7.6 9 

Mental Phil. 8.1 - 9 

Classics 9 9 9 

Astronomy 8.5 9.5 9 

Rhetoric 8.3 8 7 

MYSELF 

This year has been to me a most memorable year. I have 
in it changed greatly, morally, intellectually and socially. In all 
three my progress has been very marked. Morally indeed I am 
entirely different from my former self. I have settled firmly 
and forever many great principles which before I had not. My 
former practices only my habits have now become principles. 
But religiously I fear that my heart-knowledge is not as it should 
be. I have grown in knowledge, have I grown in grace? My in- 
tellectual nature has become more settled. I have become more 
intellectual than I ever was before. My perceptive and argumen- 
tative faculties have become more developed. My imagination, 
taste, and original suggestion has been strengthened but my 
mind is not objective but in a small degree. On the contrary it 
is eminently subjective. My power of extempore address has 
been greatly improved and my mind has lost to a great extent 
that gloomy aspect it once wore. My understanding has been 
improved but I fear I cannot say that of my memory and general 
knowledge. Lastly, in a social point of view, I was not once 
what now I am. My tongue was not that of a ready conversa- 
tionalist and to save my life I could not interest a lady. It is not 
so now. I have lost all this bashfulness, rather shamefacedness 
and have become as ready a talker as most although there is a 
great, very great room for improvement, still I must as father 
says, get some more brass. I stand in a fair way to get it. 

TO MY BOOKS 

Dearest friends, in all my sorroivs 
True companions, welcome ever! 
Ye who with the changing morrows 
Tho disastrous, leave me never; 
When I feel in doleful humour 
Ye are ever by to cheer me. 
When Fm vexed with nervou,^ rumor, 
Loved companions, ye are near me. 
When my soul is filled %cith gladness 
Or when sorrows round me hover; 



56 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

When my heart is clothed in sadness 

Or when joys my sorrows cover; 

When the world is cold and hitter, 

When companions all deceive me; 

Ye, I find companions fitter. 

Ye are friends who never leave me. 

Yes, ye tell me, tho' I tarry 

For a moment, clothed in sorrow, 

In the grave my grief I'll bury 

In the resurrection's morrow. 



CHAPTER THREE 

I860— Age 17 

S^indaif, Januanj first. The first day of the New Year is 
upon us. Father reminded me today that Mr. Orm of Milledge- 
ville wished to engage me as a reporter for the next session of 
the Georgia legislature, promising to pay me $200 for six weeks. 
I think that I will go at the risk of six weeks from my college 
course. I received a note from Mr. Woodruff, saying that he was 
now in Charleston and intended to work for the Courier. I call- 
ed on him but he was not in. I afterwards procured this Journal 
which I intend to keep much better than I have hitherto. 

Wednesdmi, January fourth. I attended yesterday a meet- 
ing of the School of Sacred Music under the professorship of 
Professor Robinson. I expect some of these days to be able to 
sing and if I do I will be a tenor-vocalist. Cousin Kate is very 
anxious for me to learn to sing soon. As soon as I got home I 
found Presley there. He and Ripley came over in the Steamer 
Edisto. They seemed to be highly pleased with their trip. I sup- 
pose I will be as well pleased with mine next April for father 
had told me I can go then. 

Thursday, January twelfth. These are very strange times 
we live in. Nothing very particularly strange has happened of 
late but I have no doubt that the time is not far distant when 
strange things will happen. At present I feel very strange. I 
feel oppresed. I know not how, with something, I know not 
what. Were I prophet I might predict. By the by somehow I 
know not how, I have dropped a spot of ink on the outside border 
of my journal, covering precisely two months from the 6th of 
May to the 6th of July. Can that portend anything? I am not 
superstitious otherwise, I might surmise all sorts of fearful 
things. 

Friday, January thirteenth. One of my Virginia relatives 
is spending a few days with us, namely Cousin Adeline Osborn. 

Thursday, January nineteenth. I received a long friendly 
letter from Tom Law. He will be in the Seminary when I en- 
ter and I hope that we will be good friends all through life. 

Tuesday, January tiveyity -fourth. Johnny Caldwell and I 
had a long talk today on our plans and prospects for the future. 

57 



58 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

We both hoped that we both might get our congregations to love 
us, that we might live in the country and be near each other. 
That we both might get pretty wives and loving wives; and a 
whole pile of other wishes. Johnny and I are great friends and 
I think we ever will be until death shall part us. Richard John- 
son visited me last night. 

Friday, March ninth. Today I will quote a page from my 
notebook, headed ''Gnothi Seauton" of ''Willie Jacobs as others 
see him." A mixture of the various opinions I hear, expressed 
de mihi. "Hypocritical, deceitful, fighting character, so easily 
teased" — Miss Mary Mikell. "Conceited" — Miss Laura Adams. 
"Hard hearted, good boy" — Miss Anna Mikell. "Telltale" — Miss 
Nettie Spear. "Queer Genius" — Mr. Woodruff. "Nice boy" — 
Ripley. "Fine fellow — Mighty impudent" — Jimmie Robertson. 
"So undecided" — Cousin Kate. "Wouldn't do wrong unless by ac- 
cident" — father. 

Saturday, March tenth. Busy as I am with my college pre- 
parations I have still some little time to think of other matters. 
Miss Mary Mikell is a real nice young lady and if I have a single 
friend in this house, she is that one. To remember her, needs no 
memento for me; but I have one nevertheless. She gave me this 
verse (tho ignorant of its contents) and to preserve it I know no 
better place than my journal : 

Do you on me hestoiv a single thought? 
When you are absent am I not forgot? 

Ah, Miss Mary, I would give you this if you would take it. 

''The miser never loved his buried pelf 
As much as I, dear girl, do love yourself.** 

Somebody has remarked that I am a very 'sensitive' young man. 

Monday, March tivelfth. During the coming holydays if 
they are holydays to me, I intend writing either a course of lec- 
tures on "Phonetics and Phonography" or a course of letters 
on "Astronomy." I would like to do both but I have very little 
chance of that. 

Thursday, March fifteenth. I am eighteen years of age to- 
day! It seems not long since I penned almost this same sen- 
tence. Yes, how short the time since I was seventeen. Have I 
improved any? Is my body, heart, head and soul forward of 
last year? "Not to advance is to retreat!" Have I advanced? 
Have I retreated? I know I have advanced in other respects but 
these other respects are those of least importance. I see that 
my article "Will you read your Bible" has appeared in the South- 



AGE SEVENTEEN— 1860 59 

em Preshiiterian. Would that it might influence one soul to 
say "Yes, 1 will read my Bible." I intend as soon as time per- 
mits, to inflict more upon the editors generally. 

Friday, April sixth. Thinking, earnestly thinking of the 
far future — of the time when God willing it should be my duty 
to work for the salvation of man, when I could feel all of peace 
and confidence in Him, I lay in bed last night, thinking of one I 
often think of and asking strange questions of my soul. 

Sunday, April eighth. (Edisto Island) Grandfather wears a 
gown in the pulpit and it suits him so well that I felt like liking it. 

Sunday, April fifteenth. And now let me mention a prac- 
tice of grandfather's which I like. Every Sunday afternoon he 
calls his family and his servants about him and goes through the 
regular service and preaches a sermon or reads a printed one, 
thus employing that part of the day. 

Monday, April sixteenth. This morning I bade Edisto a sad 
farewell and our train moved slowly to the boat, and now the 
boat moves, I cast "One long, last lingering look behind" — and 
the salt straits of the boundless deep lay betwixt me and that 
isle of calm repose. Now I may ask in earnestness 'Shall I ever 
see it again?' Yes I may ask it seriously, shall I ever again plant 
my foot upon its shore? Why so much doubt? I live in Charles- 
ton and it is a short run to Edisto and is it indeed a short run? 
No, father has received a call to some church in Alabama and he 
will go there, I think. 

Wednesday, April eighteenth. My last term report was as 
follows : 





Term 


Oral 


Writte 


Moral Philosophy 


8.5 


8 


— 


Mental Philosophy 


8.3 


9 


— 


Classics 


9 


9 


9 


Mechanics 


8.7 


— 


9 


Lectures 


— 


9 


8.5 


Astronomy 


9 


9 


— 



Monday, April twenty -third. The long looked for, earnestly 
expected Convention of Delegates to nominate a president is in 
session here at last. They began at the Institute Hall at twelve 
o'clock. One of the Maine delegates, Mr. Leyman and his wife 
are staying at our house. I went down to various iiotels and 
found them crowded with delegates, speechifying and talking at 
a great rate. I must get an opportunity to attend one day if 
possible just to say I attended the Democratic Convention at its 
Charleston session. Mr. Woodruff wants me to report for the 



60 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Courier but I would prefer to stay at college, engaged in a brown 
study. 

Wednesday, April ttventy -fifth. Oh, what a glorious thing 
it is to do one's duty, although the apparent Bonum would seem 
to attach to the other side. Now an application : I always study 
all of our recitations and the whole of each one but many in the 
class study only the pieces they expect to get and they can guess 
precisely and they let the rest of the recitation take care of 
itself. Of course they seem to know more than I but thank God, 
I do my duty! My library is daily increasing and contains now 
quite a respectable array of books. I want to get a good library 
for I think that absolutely necessary to a good minister. 

Friday, April ttventy -seventh. Never say die is my word! 
Ticket in hand, I sallied out to attend the Democratic Convention. 
Once there, once in, I was safe, without fear of being turned out. 
While there I made the following notes: In the Ins. Hall, wait- 
ing most earnestly for the convention to come, surrounded on all 
sides by grave, seedy and expectant seniors, reading newspapers, 
talking, speechifying with their hats on. In the opposite gallery 
is quite a number of ladies, all very expectant. *'Bam, bam, bam, 
'meeting will please come to order'.'' 

Saturday, April ttventy -eighth. Coming from the conven- 
tion was far more difficult than getting to the convention — for 
as soon as Mr. Cushing declared the house adjourned the crowd 
in the galleries immediately made a rush for the door, over chairs, 
benches, every impediment. We stand at length at the head of 
the stairs — how to get to the bottom? 

Tuesday, May first. Yesterday I obtained the ticket from 
Uncle Ned, took long strides to the hall. I hurried into the gal- 
lery in time to hear several speeches and to see Alabama, South 
Carolina, Mississippi, Texas, Florida, Arkansas and Delaware 
withdraw from the convention. Several speeches were made 
which elicited tremendous applause. The southern delegation 
intend to make a southern convention and withdraw from the 
northern platform. Hurrah for the south! Hurrah for South 
Carolina. 

Wednesday, May second. Passing up the street I asked the 
news of everybody and found that the Democratic Constitution- 
al Convention is being held at the Theatre. I must take the first 
opportunity to attend. 

Thursday, May third. 1 intended to pay another visit to the 
Squatter Convention this afternoon but they have come to the 
conclusion that they would not come to a conclusion and so have 



AGE SEVP:NTEEN— 1860 61 

concluded to adjourn without concluding. I went down to the 
hall yesterday afternoon and saw them cast five ballots, the last 
stood Douglas 151 Vi. Guthrie 66V-j and others scattering. Of 
course the other convention will now proceed to nominate a can- 
didate and they must get a strong man. 

Fridan, May fourth. As both conventions have adjourned, 
one to Baltimore, the other to Richmond, I will have no oppor- 
tunity of going again. In future days I can say how that I press- 
ed in among others to this Democratic Convention. I saw the 
grave and revered heads of the people, political fathers, in grave 
convention assembled, to deliberate on the tottering affairs of 
the nation. I partook of the terrible contentions and confusion 
which universally prevailed and I saw this great republic tottering 
to its foundation stone. I have preserved as a memorial of it, a 
ticket, one issued to allow admittance to the galleries before they 
were finally thrown open. It is signed by D. A. Smalley and C. 
L. Vallandingham, and now the battle is over for the present, 
let a lull ensue. 

Saturday, May fifth. I have determined and with a firm 
reliance on God, I will accomplish. I will not seek great things 
for myself. I will lay all my laurels at Jesus' feet. Then, this 
be my resolve: to work through life, to work steadily, faithfully, 
trustingly and with my w^hole soul forgetting the world and the 
things of the world, knowing only Jesus and Him crucified. God 
help me, so that this be not merely a string of idle words. 

Sunday, May sixth. I read today that the Pope has an idea 
of establishing his spiritual humbug over on this continent. Let 
him come! Let his cardinals and bishops and other stuff come 
over here! Let them take up their abode among us! This is my 
resolve. I'll beard the lion in his den. I'll use every sinew in 
my body as a rope to strangle his idolatry. I hate not him but 
his abominable heresy and I'll fight against it and speak against 
it and write against it as long as one drop of blood remains un- 
consumed in my veins, as long as my tongue stands sentinel in 
my mouth, as long as this head can put two ideas together, and 
these hands can touch pen to paper. Let him come! Let him 
establish his throne! But it must be established over me. (In 
later years the author wrote at the bottom of this page "He 
didn't come!'' —Editor) 

Tuesday, May eighth. Father left home a week ago for the 
purpose of going to Selma, Alabama, where he had received a 
call. If he comes back on Thursday with his mind made up to 
go, the school term will close immediately and I will be left all 
alone in Charleston. I know that my eight months stay will 



62 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

completely tire me of Charleston. Oh, it will seem so strange 
here without a home, with such associations. Oh, the happy, 
happy recollections that come crowding in upon me of the pleas- 
ant times I have spent here. Of the many delightful hours in 
conversation with the girls. Oh, how can I break up all of these 
almost hallowed associations for the purpose of staying to com- 
plete my education but I must! 

Friday, May eleventh. Father has returned from Alabama 
and I think that he has made up his mind to leave Charleston. 
He seems to be so delighted with the church and the people and 
suppose he should go! ... I made today an attempt to speak in 
chapel ; as usual I broke down. 

Sunday, May tiventieth. How hard it is to feel! I find it 
the most difficult thing to do. I can talk and write but oh, how 
difficult it is to feel that we have a real Saviour — a living not a 
dead Savior — who loves to do all we ask. 

Thursday, May twenty -fourth. I have made up my mind 
that as soon as I have leisure, I will undertake to write sketches 
of some of my many adventures. It would be worth the while 
if it were only to improve in composition. First however, I must 
finish my incompleted ''Lectures on Phonography" and "Letters 
on Astronomy." Tho they are not worth finishing, yet I must 
persevere. 

Monday, June fourth. Lo, father is going. He has publicly 
announced it to the world and I must confess that I am glad of it. 
I hate mystery ! I love everything to be open. Enough ! My 
next composition is to be upon a very curious subject "Why do 
we Die?" I'll. try to make it plain. I hate mysteries. 

Tuesday, June nineteenth. I received this morning a letter 
from Tom Law. I was very glad to hear from him and will 
answer his letter soon. He confessed his faults. I am of a good 
intention. Perhaps long days hence I may publish "Forty years 
of familiar letters with Rev. Thomas Law, D.D." 

Saturday, June thirtieth, I love to confide, to trust in God. 
I love everything — life seems so fresh. God grant that my life 
may be devoted to Him. 

Tuesday, July tenth. I called yesterday on Mr. Alfred Tay- 
lor to request information in respect to my being able to go out 
as a missionary under the auspices of the Sunday School Union. 
It is a grave matter, fraught with solemnity. I am not yet pos- 
itively engaged l)ul I should be. What can I be expected to do? 
Strange feelings fill my heart; strange fears. Am I fitted for 
it? No, but with God's grace 1 hope to be. I will pray for aid 
and enlightenment. 



AGE SEVENTEEN— 18C0 03 

Tuesday, July seventeenth. 

Time is flying, 

Cease your sighing, 

Be preparing, 

Nothing caring. 

For the troubles of the earth. 

Tern pus fugit, 

Puer mug it, 

YouWe a man, 

Do what you can 

To make your time your trouble ivorth. 
In short why cry because examination is near; with the courage 
of a man, all your weary work begin ; when you've done all that 
you can, you a noble place will win. 

Monday, July thirtieth. We are all packing up very diligent- 
ly, I to go to Edisto; father and Cousin Kate to Alabama and 
Presly to Mrs. Webb's. Father intends going with cousin Kate 
to Edisto Island and will stay there a week or two and with 
mother will go out to Alabama. I will not get out until I gradu- 
ate in March. Presly will enter The Citadel in January. 

Tuesday, July thirty-first. I received my quarterly report 
yesterday from college. I subjoin it with the reflection that corn- 
Oral 
9 
9 

9.5 
8 
9 

Grand Average 8.77 
precisely equal even to a tenth with my average last term but 
four tenths ahead of my average the term before. 

Wednesday, AuguH first. What is more pleasant to receive 
than a letter? Tom Law wrote me yesterday and I must say 
that his letters are always welcome; so full of news, so full of 
everything that is calculated to please and gratify me. Tom 
and I must remain as we have begun, good friends. 

Friday, August third. While reading De Quincy'^ Suspiria 
de Profundis yesterday I came across a remark of his \o the ef- 
fect that children have the power of painting images in the mid- 
night darkness. I can bear witness to the truth, the terrible 
truth of this remark. Many is the hour that my poor head and 
heart have been tormented by horrid sights. I dared not open 
my eyes for fear of seeing horrible, bloody, snaky heads, peering 



ment is unnecessary. 






Departments 


Term 


Written 


Political Economy 


8.2 


8 


Latin Classics 


9 


9 


Natural Philosophy 


8.8 


9.5 


Belles Lettres 


— 


9 


Geology 


8 


— 



64 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

at me, fiery, flickering eyes, slimy serpents nor yet did I dare 
to close my eyes. The images painted on the darkness did not 
desert the retina but peered and gnashed and grinned on me still. 
I could easily command them to appear but the most excruciating 
terror could not command them away. 

Saturday, September first. (Edisto Island) I wish I was a 
painter. I would like to portray the scene before me. The wild 
wind whistles among the hill tops, whirling in furious clouds the 
drifting sands. There! see how the sand is falling like snow. Al- 
ready is yonder grove white as snow. But the ear as well as the eye 
is pleased. I love the whistling wind. I love the low murmur of the 
wind-stirred pines. I love the loud solemn moaning as it passes 
through the palmettos but beyond description is the solemn sound 
of the sea, the loud roaring voice of many waters. The sea ! The 
sea! The bright, the blue, the ever free. I love its sound as it 
dashes proudly, sullenly on to its confines, rolling high on land 
and then contemptuously spurning the ground from it. I love in 
the night watches to listen to its eternal cadence, the anthem of 
infinity. To pass on to another subject. How sad it is to break up 
home associations. When I return to Charleston I will have no 
home. I must board as a stranger in an old familiar place. How 
sad ! I will be passing away. But a little while and I shall know 
it no more. But this earth is nothing more than a short abiding 
place. We must die to make way for others but there is room for 
all in heaven. Father goes to Fairview today. Parting, oh parting, 
parting is pain. God bless thee my father! thou hast always 
trusted in Him. He will aid thee now. Thou hast taught me where 
to gain consolation. Thou hast always loved and aided me. Oh, 
how can I repay Thee for all thy kindness ! I will not try. I would 
rather be in thy debt. Gratitude, Oh, how sweet to be grateful to 
Thee. God bless Thee, my father. God bless Thee. 

Friday, September twenty -eighth. I am thinking of father. 
I know how he is toiling to support us and I almost feel as if I 
were doing wrong to sit here at my ease. I must do something 
and yet when I say so I feel that my hands are tied, yes bound 
down to my side and what can I do? This I will. I will at least 
do my duty to my studies; I will strive to become a workman 
who needeth not to be ashamed and I will do more. I will have 
fre(iuent intercession with God for my father. I will attempt 
to become God's by Christ's aid. Nor yet can I remain passive. 
I will try to be a dutiful son and make frequent communication 
with home. And I must work, must attempt to do something to- 
wards my support if I can. I will, Oh, I must. How can I stand 
this! Is there no way for me to work? I will inquire. I will 



AGE SEVENTEEN— 1860 65 

pray to God and He will throw remunerative work into my hands. 
I have no way left and why should I, poor mortal, be tossing 
about in anguish when a God is waiting to help me. **0h, my 
God, thou hast frequently answered my prayer in smaller things. 
Oh, help me now in greater! Oh, I pray, enable me to do some 
work. Oh, God, give me something to do. Lord, Thou hast 
told us to come to Thee! Wilt Thou not then help me now? 
Show me where I may find work and help me to do it. Oh, ans- 
wer me for Jesus Christ's sake!" 

Saturday, October twenty -seventh, I am nearly nineteen. 
Ten years will make it twenty-nine — thirty-nine — forty-nine — 
fifty-nine. Say I do arrive at fifty-nine which is far more than 
I ever will do, say I arrive at fifty-nine, I must die then. Let 
me work then. Let me work then, the night is near, at hand. 
Day is added unto day! Year to year. But death cometh. 

Wednesday, November seventh. Lincoln we heard is elected. 
The South is free. The banner of independence is streaming in 
front of the Post Office and when it went up the assembled multi- 
tude gave one universal shout. The Post Office Master, the Har- 
bour Master, the Customs House Officer and others holding offices 
under the Federal Government have resigned and were sur- 
rounded by a crowd of fully three thousand citizens. The whole 
country is in an uproar! There will be a grand torchlight pro- 
cession in honor of the resigned tonight, and more speeches will 
be in order. These are momentous times upon which we have fall- 
en. There is nothing but secession everywhere. 

Monday, November twelfth. This Monday the sun rose fair 
and beautiful. Intense excitement prevailed among the students 
for it is known that the star of South Carolina would be unfurl- 
ed upon the campus. The time arrived for the ceremony and in 
solemn silence the flag was brought forth. Intense excitement 
prevailed, the order was given and the lone star guiding the 
Palmetto rose majestically. One universal shout went up. 

Friday, November sixteenth. Joining the crowd I followed 
my nose to the corner of Hayne and Meeting to see the Liberty 
Pole erected. It is some eighty or ninety feet tall with a gilded 
ball on the summit. Scarce had I reached the arena and secured 
a standing place before the cannon of the LaFayette Artillery 
boomed on the air amid the cracking of glass and the banner was 
unfurled amid the huzzas of the multitude, bearing a palmetto 
sprinkled with fifteen stars and the legend "Animis Opibusque 
parati" — the gift of the ladies of Charleston. After a prayer, the 
audience of five thousand was addressed by Theo. Barker amid 
immense applause. Suddenly one universal shout went up and the 



66 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

banner of the Mercury office, the first one in the city, spread to- 
gether with a real palmetto were received and placed at the mast 
head. Dr. Robertson, Mr. Hammond and others spoke amid en- 
thusiastic cheering and delightful music from the band. At one 
o^clock the crowd retired peaceably to their homes and I mud- 
died (not muddled) went with them. Hurrah for noble South 
Carolina. She has begun a good work. May she ever prosper. 

Wednesday^ November twenty-first. Below is an extract 
taken from the ''Lincolnton Courier" N. C. of February 8th, 
1845: 

MELANCHOLY — It is ivith deep regret ive have learned 
the death of Rev. Ferdinand Jacobs, ivife, child and nurse, in 
York village, S. C. all on Friday night the 31st ult. of pneumonia 
(affection of the lungs). Mr. Jacobs went to York from 
Baltimore, Md. to take charge of the Female Academy about two 
years since, during which time he ivas also Pastor of the Presby- 
terian Church and in each situation carried ivith him the love and 
respect of the ivhole community. He has left four infant children 
to buffet the cold ivorld alone, while he has risen with their saint- 
ed mother, lue trust, to a glorious immortality. The church has 
lost one of its most eloquent ministers and society ttvo of its 
brightest ornaments. Jan. 31st, 18 U5, 

Sorry as I am for the truth of it, yet I am overjoyed that it 
is not as terrible as was supposed. If my father had died — oh, let 
me banish the terrible thought. From the notice I collect that 
"Mother died on Jan. 31st, 1845 of pneumonia, when I was but 
three years old. That at the same time her child (a little sister 
but a few months old) and a nurse were all hurried suddenly 
home. That father had moved to Yorkville four years before 
(in 1841) and had charge then of a female seminary and the 
Presbyterian Church. That mother died leaving Sam, Ferdie, 
Willie and Presly to bufl'et the world. 

Thursday, November 29th. This morning I was astonished 
by having my name called and was still more astonished on hear- 
ing that there was a telegraphic dispatch waiting for me to open 
it. It was from Dr. R. W. Gibbes of Columbia and was worded 
thus: "Come up immediately and report for me." What was left 
for me to do but to resolve and act. I bothered myself no little 
bit in procuring holyday and bought me a reporting portfolio, 
got a ticket on the R. R. and in a very short time I was in the 
car. I have many indistinct recollections of waking up several 
times during the night trip to Columbia. Once I turned my eyes 
out the window and found myself at Orangeburg. "Separate 
State Action" blazed in mighty capitals from the depot while 



AGE SEVENTEEN— 1860 67 

far in the distance shrouded in moonlight and resting in balmy 
security in the forest was the female seminary. How many happy 
girlish hearts are there! Hundreds of times I changed my un- 
pleasant posture and I must own I was glad when I reached Col- 
umbia at five thirty in the morning. A cold, damp ride and I was 
set down at my old place, the City Hotel. After a miserable break- 
fast I startled my friends at the Carolina office by the apparition 
of my pretty face and after that I visited Dr. Gibbes, found him 
better, accepted his offer for $20.00 per week and at ten I was 
at the CaroUniau Office again. From there to the State House. 
It is a mean building with very crowded rooms for the members, 
a few stocked committee rooms and nothing more. Friday night I 
spent with Henry Sparnick at the Congaree House. We had a 
long chat. Mr. Woodruff dropt in and amused us until midnight. 
This morning I changed my lodgings to Shiver's Assembly House 
where I was kindly met by a young reporter of Baltimore, N.E. 
Foard. We took rooms together. He is a young man of 23 and of 
wide experience. He is reporting for the Carolinian's rival, the 
Guardian. We frequently have long political discussions together. 
He is a man of extraordinary experience, of unflinching perse- 
verance, a fine literary turn, a fine mind. I am reporting this year 
in the House of Representatives which is a decided promotion. I do 
not find it so difficult as I apprehended it w^ould be. This is a 
most important session. In the House we have four reporters : 
Woodruff of the Courier, Dill of the Mercury, Foard of the Guard- 
ian and Jacobs of the Carolinian. 

Monday, December third. An amusing incident happened 
today to me. The reporting corps were by the fire today talking 
about reporters when I misunderstood Mr. Dill of the Mercury 
with whom I w'as unacquainted to say that Mr. Dill of the Mer- 
cury was the most superior reporter in Carolina. I blurted out, 
."No! I think Mr. Woodruff a better reporter." "Than whom?" 
said Mr. Dill. "Than Mr. Dill of the iMercury,'' I replied. "Why 
that is my name", he answered. My embarrassment may be 
better imagined than described. Foard with his usual tact, got 
me out of the scrape. 

Wednesday, December sixth. I have visited the new State 
House, have explored it completely and think it beautiful. I 
subjoin a plate of it as it will be when finished. It. has now 
reached the third story and is rapidly progressing upwards. 
Two portraits adorn its front and the Corinthian columns are 
already in their places. . . .There are two factions busy. One at 
whose head stands R. B. Rhett is aiming to convert Carolina in- 
to a monarchy — the other would hurry it into an absolute democ- 
racy. The monarchial party hold the supremacy in the House 



68 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

of Representatives, while strange to tell, the conservative party, 
the Senate, have a majority in favor of democracy but it is highly 
probable that in the convention the monarchists are the most 
powerful. I am in favor of a medium plan, a republic. I would 
lament indeed to see South Carolina changed into a monarchy. 
I would grieve to see it become a pure democracy. Let it re- 
main as it is — a conservative republic, bounded on one hand by 
an absolute democracy — on the other by a limited monarchy 
and I think that South Carolina would thus ever stand free and 
independent. 

Sunday, December ninth. We are all just now much afflicted 
with ''small pox" fear. There have been dozens of cases re- 
ported and I would like to leave but duty bids me cling to my 
post. But now, I feel the excellency of being able to put my 
trust in a protecting God. I can look with less fear upon death 
than can others who have not taken Jesus as their all. 

Sunday, December sixteenth. The small pox is spreading 
rapidly and has already become a source of fear to all. It is 
whispered on all sides that the Convention will adjourn tomor- 
row to meet in Charleston. If they should do this we may ex- 
pect that the legislature will follow their leader. 

Monday, December seventeenth. After some minor and 
unimportant proceedings the Convention for fear of small pox 
resolved to adjourn to Charleston. I then proceeded to the House 
of Representatives and after some less important proceedings 
we learned that the Senate had, consequent upon the determi- 
nation of the Convention, determined also to adjourn. Late at 
night wearied, tired out and worn down we at last reached home, 
intending to leave for Charleston at four in the morning. 
"L'homme propose mais dieu dispose." The morning came but 
it did not open our eyes. We cannot depend upon the protesta- 
tions of landlords. 

Wednesday, December nineteenth. On Wednesday nothing 
of very much importance was done but ever memorable will be 
the 20th day of December. At one o'clock Mr. Inglis introduced 
the ordinance of Secession. "An ordinance to dissolve the Union 
between the state of South Carolina and other states united 
with her under the compact entitled "The Constitution of this 
United States of America. We, the people of the state of South 
Carolina in convention assembled do declare and ordain, and it 
is hereby declared and ordained that the ordinance adopted by us 
in convention, the 23r(l day of May in the year of our Lord 1788 
whereby the Constitution of the U. S. of America was ratified 
and also all acts or parts of acts of the General Assembly of 



AGE SEVENTEEN— 1860 



69 



this state ratifying amendments of this said Constitution are 
hereby repealed and that the Union now subsisting between South 
Carolina and other states under the name of the United States 
of America be hereby dissolved." At seven minutes after one the 
vote was taken on the ordinance. As name by name fell on the 
ear of the silent assembly the brief sound was echoed back with- 
out any exception in that whole body — aye! Scarcely had the 
President announced the vote unanimous before the people as- 
sembled without, sent up one universal shout of triumph and men 
and children ran from street to street, heralding the glad tidings. 
All the stores were closed, bands of soldiers were immediately 
parading and crowds were gathered everywhere to hear and tell 
the news. The Mercury extras were seized with an eagerness 
unparallelled in the annals of the Charleston press. At five 
thirty the convention again met and proceeded in a body to the 
Secession (Institute) Hall to ratify the ordinance. At the foot 
of the stairs they were joined by the Senate and House of Repre- 
sentatives and the three bodies took their seats from which 
months ago their representatives had seceded. An old gray 
headed man was brought forward to supplicate the throne of 
grace and Dr. Bachman poured out his whole soul in it. The 
President then read the ordinance and when he finished it, the 
whole audience rose and gave tremendous applause. One by one 
the delegates went up and signed the ordinance and when the 
last name was added, President Jamison said "I do therefore de- 
clare South Carolina to be a separate, independent common- 
wealth," every man, woman and child leaped up, hats flew high in 
air and cheer after cheer echoed and re-echoed from floor to 
roof, from side to side, until exhausted it fell down in one long, 
loud cadence of rejoicing. It was the noblest moment of my life. 
Even now while I write, my blood thrills with excitement at the 
thought. The same scene was re-enacted in the street. Gen. 
Martin by the light of a street lamp read the ordinance to the 
crowd when it was met with similar enthusiasm. Thus ended 
the glorious 20th of December. 



Monday, December thirty-first. In this year I entered the 
senior class. In this year my heart has been sorely tried by a use- 
less love. In this year I have been thrown more upon my own re- 
sources. Thrice I have been absent from the city, , twice on 
pleasure, once on business. In this year, our family has been in 
a measure broken up. I have had a new sister given to me and I 
have found the priceless gem of a mother's love. Many, many 
new friends have been made known to me and one, a classmate, a 
loved classmate has passed into eternity. Nor has the year been 
without its bearing upon my country's history. I have been a wit- 



70 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ness to many of the scenes of its dying struggle. I saw the con- 
vention whose disunited sentiments has brought this trouble upon 
us who threw to the dogs the United States of America. I saw 
the convention, even more I reported in the convention whose 
united sentiment framed the doctrine that freed my native state. 
I saw that document ratified. Before this I had seen the flag of 
Liberty raised aloft and christened by the gathered multitudes. 
These things and more than these have I beheld. 

Tuesday, February eighteenth. 

AT MY DESK 
Hoiv many musings and reflections rise 
When seated in my leathern cushioned chair! 
My velvet covered desk before my eyes! 
There have I luorked most abstruse problems out, 
Which othrewhere defied my strongest thought. 
And there 2vhen troubled much with care and doubt, 
Most manfully oppressive fears have fought. 
'Tis there I syllable the ivords of love 
To those dear ones I love in distant climes: 
'Tis there, my soul in poesy I move; 
Where round me floats a mystic cloud of rhymes, 
'Tis there, things unattempted yet, I try 
In prose or verse; tis there I best succeed. 
'Tis there my ivants I knoiv and learn to cry 
For grace to aid me in those things I need. 
Ah! there's a sympathy twixt it and me 
And there if anywhere I feel at home. 
Within its influence may I always be! 
Beyond its influence may I never roam. 

A WISH 
May all thy days urith peace be croivned; 
May all thy life in joy abound; 
And Oh, to Thee, may bliss rebound. 

DYING 

Slowly and surely the day is declining, 
Cttbyily and gently and nothing repiniyig 
To heaven from earth her sail takes its flight 
As sweetly as even sinks down into night. 

ALBUM 

Fairest page! I would not blot thee 
With my own unworthy yuime 
If I a better way could see 
Miss Mary's memory to claim. 



AGE SEVENTEEN— 1860 71 

On thy fair bosom then, I write — 
* Page of spotless purity, 

May she in future years requite 
These lines with but a thought of me. 

TO MISS LIZZIE MCL WHO ASKED ME TO WRITE IN HER 

ALBUM 

You have asked me, Miss Lizzie, how could I refuse 

To write in your Album a line. 

If I don't suit your fancy, tear out if you choose 

This miserable scribble of mine. 

When these days are numbered with those that are past 

And you've no remembrance of me, 

Let your memory turn, tho' the leaf is the last, 

To the place where my name used to be. 

DR. GIBBES 

Stude7its of Charleston College, hail! — 

Forgive my mixed up measure, 

For while I'm telling you my tale 

I'm at the Doctor's pleasure. 

(Let X velocity required) 

The Doctor makes me hurry, 

The hour is not one half expired, 

I'm in an awful flurry. 

(A body when projected down) 

I'm fearful lest I be so, 

(Flails in T time to the ground) 

I hope he ivon't treat me so. 

(Describe a space we call it e) 

I wish that I was nowhere 

Within a mile of where I be. 

(A minus m on T2) 

What shall I tell the Dr. next) 

Chalk makes my fingers tingle, 

(Divide by T and call it x) 

And now I'll stop my jingle. 

(See Olmstead N. Philos) 

page 41 Ex. I 



CHAPTER FOUR 

1861— Age 18 

Tuesday, January first. The first day of the first year of a 
new decade! Burning with new hope and I trust with higher 
aspirations, I enter upon it. What a year of mighty events 
it may be to me! I will throw myself upon my God and beg him 
to lead me on the way — the straight and narrow way that leads 
to Heaven. I have selected for my yearly verse 

"For in Thee, Lord, do I hope. 
Thou wilt hear, Lord, my God." Ps. 38:15. 

Friday, January fourth. The position assigned to me is the 
position of Reporter in the Senate. They pay me $20.00 per 
week. I am highly gratified at the prospect of again being able to 
make some money although it will disarrange my college duties 
somewhat. College exercises were commenced today and only two 
of my class appeared and claimed their seats. 

Saturday, January fifth, I was informed that the whole of 
the Senoir class has signed the memorial to the Trustees. This 
is right! I hope that our "pure patriotism" (?) will be properly 
appreciated. The best argument in the whole petition is to the 
effect that we do not feel like studying. 

Sunday, January sixth. On Monday morning I went to 
college, determined on obeying my better nature's promptings 
and ask for a holyday during the third hour. It was with a tremb- 
ling hand that I asked for admittance to the President's room. I 
laid before him my urgent request when "he opened his mouth 
and thus he spake" — "Mr. Jacobs, the faculty have decided on 
allowing the senior class to be absent for a few days until more 
can be done." I did not walk down stairs. I ran down stairs. 
I hallo'd it out to my classmates and they accepted it thankfully. 
Of course nothing was left for me to do but to take my portfolio 
under my arm and go down to Hibernian Hall. My seat, there, 
is directly under the President's desk. 

Wednesday, January ninth. I was awaked out of my sleep 
this morning by the booming of cannon but I thought it was 
nothing more than the cleaning of cannon. But when I went 
down town I was thunderstruck by the news that the first battle 

73 



74 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

of the Revolution had been fought. The Star of the West with 
250 men on board, re-enforcement for Major Anderson had at- 
tempted to enter the harbor. The firing was from the cannon 
on Morris Island. Not more than a dozen shots were fired be- 
fore the "Star of the West" ignominously turned tail and van- 
ished. 

Monday, January fourteenth. If college does not assemble 
soon, I am willing for the Legislature to sit as long as it feels 
like it. I get paid $20.00 per week and I would have no objection 
to continuing at this business for months to come. The work 
is very light. 

Thursday, January seventeenth. I am in the seat of war. 
A witness of all the great deeds that are transpiring. I never 
have to work at night. Am situated in a pleasant family, and 
have everything to make me comfortable. It is true I am very 
anxious to return home but even that wish I expect will shortly 
be gratified. 

Saturday, January nineteenth. All outward fears have sub- 
sided. The citizens have almost forgotten that our enemies' 
cannons are pointed at them, tho Fort Sumter still stares them 
in the face. The secession of Georgia was received with great 
joy, with the firing of cannon etc. We are now sure of a South- 
ern Confederacy. The Southern Congress will meet in Mont- 
gomery, Alabama on the 4th of February. I would like very 
much to attend its sittings. I am still engaged in the Senate. 

Wednesday, January thirtieth. I attended at night the last 
meeting of the Chrestomathic Society, the last I shall ever attend. 
I was acting President. I feel sad at the thought that my school 
days are over but it is even so. Four years nearer death! Oh, 
Father, purify Thou me. I am totally unworthy of thy love, of 
being allowed to serve Thee. Oh ! purify me ! Let me enter up- 
on it with fear and trembling. This morning (Friday) I went 
again to College today and rapped at Mr. Middleton's door. A 
voice replied ''Come in." It was the man himself. He told me that 
the Trustees had refused to give us our diplomas. Furthermore 
that we would be expected to return to college and recite, that 
those who refused to come would be deprived of their diplomas. 
This, of course, would not be submitted to by our class, and the 
whole matter ended by Mr. Middleton requesting me to call again 
tomorrow between ten and eleven o'clock to hear the final decision 
of the faculty. I do not know what to do under the circumstanc- 
es. I will call tomorrow and by that time I may be able to ma- 
ture my plans. I have procured an Index Rerum and intend 
filling it on the author's phm. I am very sick and am totally 
unfit for study. I expect to die shortly. 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 75 

Saturday, Febrnanj sccoml. Who can remember their first 
reading lesson? Who can remember when they learned their 
alphabet? I have only some slight recollection of a primer with 
pretty pictures in it, of a goodly number of spankings and a 
sight of peevishness. I must have been about six years old at 
the time. How wonderful that 1 should have learned so much 
in twelve years. 

Thfirsda}/, Februari/ seventh. Today we received the follow- 
ing communication w^hich deserves to be engrossed on parchment : 
Messrs. 

John W. Caldwell, Jr. L. R. Mellichamp 

E. E. Edgerton Henry Sparnick 

Wm. P. Jacobs E. M. Seabrook 

McMillan King Willis Wilkinson 
Mitchell King, Jr. 

Gentlemen : 

In consequence of the engrossing engagements of many of 
the Trustees of the College of Charleston, the meeting of a 
quorum of the board could not be procured until Wednesday last. 
They then met, your memorial was laid before them, and a let- 
ter in reference to it from the President of the Faculty, contain- 
ing their views on the subject. The board after much discus- 
sion and deliberation Resolved : That while the board keenly 
sympathize wqth the patriotic and gallant spirit which prompts 
the Senior Class of the College, to engage in the military service 
of the state, yet they are of opinion that the public exigencies 
do not require such a departure from academic discipline and, 
therefore, they earnestly counsel the said class to resume and 
complete their collegiate course. I am 

Very respectfully. Gentlemen 

N. 

Of course this document deserves preservation, therefore I have 
put it on file. On the same day I received a letter from mother, 
saying that it was very likely that father would leave Alabama. 
I don't understand. 

Siinda]/, February tenth. On Saturday the news reached us 
that the Southern Congress had adopted a Constitution, that we 
were now members of The Confederate States of North America. 
"Old Secession" sent forth from his bellowing mouth seven fiery 
salutes. The Congress also elected a President and Vice-Presi- 
dent. Hon. Jeff Davis of Mississippi President ; Hon. A. H. Ste- 
phens of Georgia, Vice-President. 

Monday, February eleventh. During the present time, noth- 
ing of any importance is transpiring; I read a little. Y write a 



76 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

little. I study a little but as I expect these things to be the sub- 
ject of my life, they afford no scope for displaying my talent. 
I think I had better, during these dull days, make my journal 
a journal of my thoughts and opinions. 

Wednesday, February twentieth. I attended this evening a 
meeting of the Chrestomathic Society, and took part in the 
interesting debate. This may perhaps be nearly the last time 
that I will ever enter into those v^alls. On the opposite page I 
paste my ticket of admission to the Charleston Convention. It 
was given to me on the day of the passage of the ordinance of 
Secession. The doorkeeper admit etc. was written by E. Dill, 
our other reporter and he procured Jamison's signature for me. 
I will keep it as an autograph of the President's signature. 

Tuesday, February twenty -sixth. It is thought that Fort 
Sumter will be attacked next week. I hope and trust that the at- 
tack will be successful. The floating battery was launched yes- 
terday evening and it is said to be very successful. I did not see 
it however, for I was not sure that it had been launched. This 
morning I visited Middleton. He told us that the examination 
would take place on Friday, and be concluded on Friday. 

Thursday, February twenty-eighth. On Friday, John Cald- 
well, Edgerton, (E. C.) and I were the only ones who appeared 
to claim the examination. Stiles Mellichamp is sick. Henry 
Sparnick is away and also E. Seabrook, Mc and Mitchel King. 
We assembled at nine A.M., and were under examination until 
three P.M. We again assembled at five and finished a few mo- 
ments after six. Now I begin to feel a little of the gloom which 
they say students feel on leaving college. I have had a happy 
life of it but it was all delusive happiness. "Where ignorance 
is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise." Ah, No! Better know the ill, if it 
can be remedied and if knowing can produce any good. Per- 
haps, indeed, if I had known the hollowness of the pursuits of 
life, my mind might have become chastened by a more devoted 
attachment to the things of God. God aid me in my future career. 
May he clear away the mists that cover my spiritual and mental 
horizon and allow me to know the heighth and depth of the riches 
of the knowledge of Christ. And can I pass by without notice 
the youths I have so long associated with. No! I cannot. Let 
me name them at length that in future days I may recall them : 

Everett C. Edgerton Stiles Mellichamp 

William P. Jacobs Henry Sparnick 

Mitchell King E. M. Seabrook 

McMillan King Willis D. Wilkinson 

John W. Caldwell 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 77 

May they live in peace and be happy. Sad is memory! Sad the 
thought that I have ended my college life. 

For in Thee, Oh Lord, do I hope. 
Thou wilt hear, O Lord, mij God! 

Tuesday, March twelfth. And is this my last day in Char- 
leston? Poor soul I did not know I would regret it. Farewell 
all ! Farewell — a long and sad farewell ! 

Fareivell 
to 
Charleston! 
For in Thee, do I hope. Thou ivilt hear. Oh Lord, my God! 

Friday, March fifteenth. At three I was again aboard the 
cars and travelled through a most unpleasant looking country 
until about eight P.M., when I arrived at Marion. Father and 
mother were at the depot to receive me and glad was I to have 
found them. I enjoyed the ride home. I arrived late at night 
on my nineteenth birthday. 

Monday, March eighteenth. We received today a letter from 
Ferdie. Thanks to God! Thanks to God he has again returned 
to the fold of Christ! He says that he now "knows that His re- 
deemer lives." Thanks to God ! Ferdie is now recorder of deeds 
for a man named Miller at Marysville, P. 0. Marshall Co. Kan- 
sas. 

Sunday, March twenty-fourth. The congregation is the 
wealthiest in the vicinity but the church ! It is a rude looking 
barn seated out in an open space. The sermon was a great deal 
better than the church. To be sure, God dwelleth not in houses 
but that does not render less offensive to Him the miserly spirit 
which should dedicate to His worship dwellings which the dedi- 
cators would scorn to dwell in. We should not build palaces for 
ourselves and stables for God. 

Tuesday, March twenty-sixth. Oh, I forgot a very impor- 
tant part of my life, namely to play with the baby. 

The baby, dear creature is a bright little thing; 
Her eyes, they twinkle merrily; 
And a dimplet on her chin. 
She laugheth just as cheerily 
As a grown up girl, I ween. 

Dark are her eyes of laughter. 
And white are those little hands. 
May the winds of love oft waft her 
Smooth and gently o'er life's sands. 



78 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

My muse refuses to say more because of the lameness of my feet. 
In a quiet poetic mood I will try another verse in another metre. 

Laugh aivay, smile away, coo aivay, hirdie. 
Talk to mamma, pet, a stveet little wordie. 
And mamma from carpet to ceiling will dance you! 
Cyr on a gay pony she lightly will prance you! 

Pshaw! that too is shocking. It seems that I can't get the 
sentiment to suit the metre. The principle of aptness, etc. But 
here another goes : 

'Bright little hirdie, tvhy sparkles your eye ?' 
'Because my dear mother, I'm not going to cry!' 
'But dear little dumpling, ivhy dimples your chin?' 
'Because, my dear mammy, I'm tvicked as sin!' 

I had better stop now. 

Friday, March tiventy -ninth. I received a delightful epistle 
today from John Caldwell. He sends me my diploma and tells 
me that the faculty have awarded me the second honor which 
I hope is not so. I did not expect to get even second honor but 
Mr. Middleton promised me that there would be no appointments 
given and it seems that he has broken his promise, but let it be 
so. I am, therefore, an A.B. and have ended 

Finally 

and 
Forever 

my 

College 

Life 

Friday, April twelfth. On Saturday when I reached church 
I was thunderstruck by hearing that Fort Sumter was attacked. 
Oh, that I had been there. Our first service over we had a 
recess of fifty minutes, during which I distinctly heard the 
firing of cannon at Greensboro, eleven miles distant. I guessed 
at the time, what the salute was fired for and was not astonished 
when father brought the glorious news from Marion in the even- 
ing that Fort Sumter had surrendered. The bombardment began 
at twenty minutes to four in the morning of Thursday and lasted 
until one o'clock on Saturday. During the whole time four ves- 
sels of war were detained by the storm and the protecting care 
of God from entering. Not a man of our troops was injured. 
This is marvelous in our eyes. We have not yet heard the whole 
affair and we are not a little anxious to hear it. Oh, that I was 
in Charleston. I have never witnessed a battle (Save that of the 
"Star of the West") and I only heard that. The war is begun. 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 79 

May the Lord crown our arms with victory — bloodless victories! 

Thursday, April twenty-fifth. Last evening as I was lei- 
surely approaching Marion, I was suddenly startled by hearing 
a hearty hurrah! I dismounted as quickly as I could and hurry- 
ing into Main Street found that the citizens were bidding fare- 
well to the Marion Light Infantry who were going off to the war. 
The Judson girls, numbering about eighty were assemblecl in the 
city hall and they struck up the "Marseilles Hymn" just as I 
reached there. It was grand, it was thrilling. Who could not 
fight after such a farewell! 

Saturday, April twenty-seventh. There are two remark- 
able coincidences that on April r2th the battle of Fort Sumter 
was begun and on the same day 85 years before the British made 
their attack on Charleston ; that on April 19th the first blood in 
this revolution and that on the same day 86 years before the 
first blood of the revolution was shed at Lexington. 

Friday, May third. I will copy from the family Bible the 
records of father's first marriage, etc. "Ferdinand Jacobs, son 
of Presley and Elizabeth Jacobs was born at Alexandria, D. C. 
on August 10th, 1808. Mary Elizabeth Redbrook, daughter of 
John and Elizabeth Redbrook near Wilmington, N. C. July 3rd, 
1813. F. Jacobs and M. E. Jacobs were married in Prince Ed- 
ward County, Va. by the Rev. William L. Plumer on September 
17th, 1835. Mary Elizabeth wife of Ferdinand Jacobs died in 
Yorkville, S. C, February 1st, 1845." 

Monday, May twenty-seventh. Perseverance Week. 
In this week I will try to carry out these resolutions: 

• 

Resolved : That I will study hard. 

That I will exercise much. 
That I will pray much. 

Monduy, June tenth. The arms of the Confederate States 
are still gloriously triumphant. They have been victorious in 
several recent skirmishes in Virginia. Surely the Lord of Hosts 
is with us. 

Thursday, June thirteenth. I have just read some accounts 
of horrible outrages on women, a young girl of 15 years in the 
presence of her father by the hellhounds of Lincoln. Is it wrong 
to pray for God's vengeance on these worse than fiends? Oh, 
Lord, God deliver us. Is it or is it not my duty to go to this war? 
If I could rightly understand whether my duty tells me to con- 
tinue my study for the ministry or be urged by cowardice into 
the army. 



80 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMEfl JACOBS 

Wednesday, June nineteenth. I purpose raising a fine supply 
of blackberries and seeing if I cannot in some manner improve 
the breed. I pray God above all other earthly comforts to grant 
me a sweet wife, an affectionate charge and a good garden. 
With her I think that I could lead a peaceful and contented life and 
rest in God for all things else. 

Saturday, Jidy sixth. About a week ago when I happened 
to arrive home at midnight, I noticed in the east a streak of light 
beginning in the horizon and well defined almost to the zenith. 
What was it? Was it the zodiacal light or was it in reality the 
ring around the earth which was lately spoken of as discovered 
by the U. S. expedition to Japan Of this latter visitant I may 
speak again as I have not yet seen it. (On the evening referred 
to the earth was passing through the tail of a comet. — Editor). 

Sunday, July seventh. The great comet is now visible just 
under the constellation of the Great Bear; four stars of the dip- 
per may be seen in the picture. What thoughts that bright 
streak of light brings over me, thoughts of the immensity of 
space — strange thoughts on the inhabitants of those other worlds 
— remembrances of the fact that it is not only on earth that there 
is life and motion — startling thoughts on the unsearchable great- 
ness of God and of our ineffable littleness; of Christ's great con- 
descension. The nucleus of this comet is very bright, brighter 
than a star of the first magnitude — silvery light — its tail is as 
straight as an arrow and gradually growing wider and less 
bright in its extent of twenty or thirty degrees. What comet 
is it? About this time in 1858 I saw a comet, brighter indeed 
than this but not so long. What mysterious travelers are these! 
How naturally superstitious thoughts cluster around them! 

Friday, July twelfth. The comet is waning in the distance. 
It seems that the appearance which I mentioned the other night 
as having been the zodiacal light was in reality this comet. It 
was then according to Dr. Gibbes, eighty degrees in length, its 
head was in the horizon. 

Saturday, Jidy thirteenth. I wish very much to work but 
the wish is not father to the deed. I am proposing to myself a 
grammar of the Latin, Greek, Hebrew and Syriac languages com- 
bined. 

Wednesday, July twenty-fourth. On Tuesday evening I rode 
into town to gather the news and heard that the great battle had 
at last been fought. The enemy. 35,000 strong with Gen. Scott 
at their head, attacked 15,000 southerners and after a terrible 
attack succeeded in almost breaking their lines when President 
Davis appeared on the field and having formed the army into a 



1 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 81 

V broke the enemy's lines and completely routing them, pursu- 
ing them into Alexandria, taking four batteries one numbering 
40 cannon, besides a large quantity of ammunition, baggage, arms 
and prisoners. The enemy's loss in killed is 10,000, ours about 
600. This battle will almost decide the conflict. We ought to be 
very grateful to God for it. 

Thursdaij, AuguM eighth. I received on Monday, the. fol- 
lowing from Dr. Smyth: "This will testify that Mr. William P. 
Jacobs is a most acceptable member of the Second Presbyterian 
Church, Charleston under the care of the Education Society and 
believed to be a most worthy and divinely directed candidate for 
the sacred office of the ministry." How very little he knows 
about me! 

Wednesdfiii, September eleventh. Early in the morning, af- 
ter breakfast on johnny cake and coffee, I gave the parting kiss 
and hurried off past this glen and that rill, Panther and Bogue 
Chitto into Marion, down to the depot. After much difficulty 
in regard to my baggage I succeeded in getting all right. But I 
must prelude by saying that three companies of gallant soldiers 
were on board bound for the scene of war. 

Thursday, September tivelfth. At about three in the morn- 
ing I am up again and find myself landed in Montgomery. After 
riding up to Dr. Petrie's I walked down to the landing and bade 
goodbye to the soldiers and after losing my way I suddenly turn- 
ed a corner and found myself in front of Dr. Petrie's. I spent 
twelve hours here, twelve pleasant hours. George Petrie is be- 
loved by his parents and sisters (of whom he has two) and no 
wonder for who can help loving him? I attended Dr. Petrie's 
lecture in the evening when he took the opportunity to pray for 
me. I do thank him for it. At night we again set out on our 
journey and a pleasant journey it was. Overcome by last night's 
labours I easily slept on this one and knew nothing except chang- 
ing cars at West Point until daybreak when I found myself about 
sixty miles from Atlanta and moving rapidly toward it. Enter- 
ing Atlanta we could see that it was a busy city but to my eyes 
not as pretty as Montgomery. Passing on by Stone Mountain 
with its blue sides and fallen tower, its graceful and steep ascent 
and its many varied positions, toward evening I entered Augusta. 
We took supper at the Augusta House. Happening to have an 
Alabama bill, I gave it for. my supper. 

Wednesday, August twenty-first. I have got into ray head 
three new literary projects. First, to versify some of the histor- 
ical scriptures. Second, to write a series of articles on the evi- 
dences of Christianity as evident in the sciences. Third, to write 



82 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

a book on authorship. I would immediately set about some of 
these if I only had a comfortable writing apparatus but I have 
not even a table to write on. In fact every line I have written 
for the past six months has been written in a standing posture. 

Thursday, August twenty -second. To see the moon rise — 
don't think my friend that I am moonstruck, but to see the moon 
rise as I saw it last night is worth the pains it takes to write 
about. I love to muse, as yestereen, I did, watching the fireflies 
as they sped along, wondering at their strange nature, counting 
the stars, or fashioning the shrill voice of the katydid into a con- 
cert of unknown tongues. I love to be suddenly startled by see- 
ing the big, round moon lifting its yellow, loving disk above the 
dark forest, climbing one by one from branch to branch, gilding 
each fluttering leaf and converting the shining sand into a glit- 
tering sheet of water. Call me foolish but I confess a truth when 
I say that I love moonlight. I love the moon and well can see 
how she could be adored by the fire worshippers. I love moon- 
light — I love its soft mellow tints, its gentle rays, each speak- 
ing tales of love and peace and heavenly goodness. I love moon- 
light and Him who gave it. 

Saturday, September fourteenth. I reached Columbia at 
daybreak in company with George Petrie and two of the brethren. 
I rode up to the Seminary which I expect to describe hereafter. 
Several of the brethren came in during the day, among others 
was good old friend Tom Law. It is the habit here to call all 
the students brothers. Of course I found this rather difficult 
but yet not altogether impossible. Those I love most I find it 
hardest to brother. I immediately selected a room opposite 
George Petrie's but a room situated toward the north. I take 
meals about three squares from the Seminary at Mrs. Moses*. 
Tho I am in such new scenes I cannot now and then help feeling 
a little homesick. The feeling, however, is pleasant indeed. 

Sunday, September fifteenth. On Monday morning at 
twelve P.M. we were called on by the faculty to make selections 
of rooms and I took no 13, Law Hall. There are four brethren 
in my class. Brothers Gouger, Arbuthnot and Richards. Bro- 
ther Gouger and myself have concluded that it will be wise in 
us to room together and we have two rooms assigned us, one we 
will use for our study and one for a sleeping apartment. In the 
evening Mr. Cohen called us up, received our names and fur- 
nished us with Nordheimer's Hebrew Grammar, telling us that 
he hopod to pay strict attention to our necessities. 

TucHcUiy, September seventeenth. On Tuesday morning, we 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 83 

were called up for examination and were examined on piety and 
a call to the ministry. Little enough could I give to satisfy them. 
But still I was received and my name enrolled. Brother Arbuth- 
not is to stand an examination in January in Greek when he also 
will receive enrollment. After prayers in the evening Brother 
Otts arose and proposed that the students of this place subject 
themselves to drilling every afternoon, electing a captain, etc. 
The proposition was agreed to and Brothers Otts, Law and Ar- 
buthnot appointed to draft rules for our organization. 

Fridaij, September twentieth. I love to meet with those I 
love so much. Saturday morning before daybreak I was up and 
traveled down to the depot where I met father and mother and 
cousin Kate and Minnie and little Mary States Lee. May the 
blessing of God rest on them. Father was looking well and so 
was mother and all. Mother — but I can't express my feelings — 
they are too deep for utterance. They will be in Laurens today 
by twelve and I can write to them whenever I feel like it. 

Monday, Septetyiber twenty -third, I wish that I might al- 
ways feel spiritual. Alas! my spirituality is as faint, as weak as 
any weak thing that can be found. I trust in the Lord's good- 
ness to be strengthened. Dr. Allen preached yesterday in the 
morning on "Justification by Faith" and in the evening on "The 
Sinner's State before God." He was very interesting. 

Tuesday, September tiventy-fourth. Yesterday I went again 
to the depot and succeeded in seeing and bringing home with me 
some old friends who talk when I want them to and at other 
times keep as silent as you please — friends who never forsake 
me, unless at my own instance — who are ever ready to console 
me, enspirit me, revive me, who remain with me when others 
despise me and love me when others hate me — my books. Just 
now I have ceased unpacking my friends and Brother Gouger is 
sitting before me, packing tobacco into his pipe. We have been 
discussing congregations, churches and the ladies — pain and 
death ! 

Monday, September thirtieth. I fear I have offended Bro- 
ther Hunter. He visited my room yesterday and began some 
long yarn when I gravely said "Brother H, it is my rule on the 
Sabbath always to entertain visitors with a chapter of the New 
Testament." "Read on" said he, whereupon I took up th^ Testa- 
ment and read part of a chapter when he rose and said "I guess 
I'd better go to my room and read some in my own Testament." 
He accordingly left. Since then I have not been troubled with 
his visits. 



84 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Tuesday, October first. Brother Todd tells me that he is 
from Laurensville and that I will find any number of places 
near there wherein to show forth the talent that I have within 
me. 

Thursday, October third. Our class now consists of John 
Arbuthnot, Louisiana; John Ditmaro, Florida; Henry Fay, Ala- 
bama; James Gouger, North Carolina; Wm. P. Jacobs, South 
Carolina; Luther McKinnon, North Carolina and Charles Rich- 
ards, Alabama. 

Friday, October fourth. I received a letter from mother 
yesterday in which she says that Presly has made up his mind 
to join the army. May God help him and preserve him. 

Wednesday, October ninth, I have proposed to my class- 
mates that we print a series of tracts for the army. I do not 
know how my proposition will be received. 

Saturday, October tivelfth. I also intend writing a book on 
some consoling topic of religion to leave for my posterity. I 
want it to be small and yet my whole life to be spent in elaborat- 
ing it so that every word will be worth printing and every sen- 
tence a gem, and yet I wish it so fixed that if I die next year it 
will be ready for publication. I want. to leave something to pos- 
terity so that even in my death I may be useful to my fellow- 
men. I hope that this will not turn out to be a mere idle chimsera 
of my imagination.* 

Friday, October tiventy- fifth. Gouger and myself have some 
glorious debates on the subjects of Geology and the Bible — and 
the Hebrew verb. Of course I have the right side but Gouger 
is a stubborn fellow and will persist in his hatred of Geology 
and Hebrew. I am again sadly in want of a little cash, have 
written to Dr. Gibbes to secure a place as reporter at the ap- 
proaching session of the General Assembly. I trust that God, 
in His good providence will aid me in this. How much we have 
to rely on God, even in regard to the least thing. 

Saturday, October twenty -sixth. My day's exercises now con- 
sist in getting up at six immediately after which I read the 
Bible in Latin, Greek and German. Read some in Hall's Medita- 
tions. Prayers at seven, breakfast at seven-thirty. Write this 
journal — review Hebrew. Recitations at nine, ten and some- 
times at eleven. Study one recitation before dinner and read. 
Dinner at one. Recitations and reading until five. Prayers. 



•This wish has been abundantly fulfilled in the present volume. — Ed. 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 85 

Drill immediately thereafter, followed by supper. After supper 
if not in chapel or visiting I generally sit down to do noth- 
ing but think or debate with some of the brethren till bedtime. 

Wcdnesdaif, October thirtieth. Last night the Junior Class 
made their first exhibition on the stage in the chapel and were 
criticized most unmercifully last night. My matter, my manner, 
my pronunciation, my position were all put under the microscope 
of criticism and found wanting. Not a word of praise did I get 
which is enough to take down a man's vanity, tho George Petrie 
consoled me by saying he liked my speech better than any other. 
Though this I suppose was meant to cheer my spirits a little. I 
will try to do better next time. 

Friday, November first. Some of my troubles have begun 
already. Dr. Smyth is not coming up to Presbytery and I have 
no letter of character to present to them. I have inquired of a 
dozen people and find that unless I can get Dr. Thornwell to in- 
troduce me to the Presbytery I am in a bad case. 

Saturday, November second. Today after patiently wait- 
ing all the morning and part of the evening in Presbytery, Dr. 
Howe proposed that the candidate be received and I was sum- 
moned up to the front seat. Dr. Pickens Smith examined me on 
personal piety and a call to the ministry and I trust God enabled 
me to answer correctly. Dr. Leland and Mr. Mullally crossex- 
amined me. Dr. Leland then conducted my college examination. 
He gave me the first five verses of Luke's Gospel and the first 
paragraph of I Cicero against Cataline. He also asked me such 
questions as "What is Natural Philosophy?" "What is Astron- 
omy?" "Is Chemistry a useful science?" "What is a satellite?" 
"What is the Solar System?" On motion of Dr. Howe my exami- 
nation was sustained and I was received as a candidate. I am 
much rejoiced at the consummation of it. 

Sunday, November third. Today at the request of Brother 
Otts I went up to Tekoa, a mission station on the Charlotte road 
to preach. Just after breakfast I hurried over to the depot and 
got on some cars which were about to leave. I found soon, how- 
ever, that I had not got on the passenger train but on one carry- 
ing up soldiers. I knew, however, when I reached Tekoa by 
Killian's millpond and though the cars were at full speed I had 
had no intention of going up to Charlotte so I jumped^off "fly- 
ing squirrel" fashion and down I came full length. I jumped up 
however and found that my neck was not broken and went over 
to the church. I conducted the Sunday School and got on very 
successfully until the very close when the choir leader who w^as 
singing "Old Hundred" gave out and I was obliged to sing alone 



86 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

the last two lines though I had never sung a line unaided before 
in my life. I believe I changed the time completely before I got 
to the end. I was very cold in the pulpit — chilled, chattering, but, 
though my sermon was written I managed to get considerably 
warmed up on "Jesus wept. And the Jews said, Behold, how 
he loved Him!" After service however I felt very cold and ex- 
hausted and I walked over to Mr. Killian's and he gave me a 
glass of blackberry wine which relieved me. I thank God that 
He enabled me to do as well as I did. There were two or three 
out of the twenty present who seemed to listen with a great deal 
of attention. I managed to get home tutus mente et corpore. 

Tuesday, November fifth. Yesterday evening, I again be- 
came a member of the legislature. I met Mr. Woodruff and Mr. 
Reardon who have come up to report for the Charleston Courier 
and Mercury. 

Tuesday, November tivelfth. Troops are continually pass- 
ing here, pouring on to the seat of war. It seems as though a 
large battle was going to be fought in Virginia, very shortly. 
No news has been received from Virginia for three days. 

Thursday, November fourteenth. I finished for the first 
time in my life, reading the New Testament in the original Greek. 
I will be very glad when I finish the Old Testament in the orig- 
inal Hebrew. I have just had some labels printed for my book 
with the mottoes "Be sober, be diligent. Versati manu, Nox 
venit." 

Friday, November twenty -second. I received yesterday this 
telegram "Mr. Jacobs, short hand reporter. Theological Seminary. 
Can I engage you to report Senate proceedings of coming legisla- 
ture for Mercury and if so at what rate? Answer immediately. 
R. B. Rhett, Jr." Now Dr. Gibbes will give me only twelve dol- 
lars per week and the Mercury would give me twenty — quite a 
difference. I immediately telegraphed "Dr. Gibbes has engaged 
me." This is the second application for my services I have had 
since I applied to Dr. Gibbes. I am very sorry I made the en- 
gagement with him but it is done and I abide by it. 

Sunday, November twenty -fourth. On Saturday night Dr. 
Adger sent a message to me to go around to his home and at 7:45 
P.M., I was there. He then offered me $50.00 for the session 
of the General Assembly (Southern Presbyterian, Augusta. — 
Editor) which 1 accepted on the condition that 1 could get ex- 
cused from the legislature. 

Saturday, December seventh. (Augusta) Dr. Adger is 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 



87 



making Dr. Palmer act parliamentarily and yet very much not so. 
He made a little speech the other day in which he suggested that 
it would be of much service to the reporter if he would call out the 
names of each member as he rose. Dr. Palmer, though he has no 
right to know that there is a reporter in the house, has on one or 
two occasions turned to me and said, "that is Dr. — Mr. Jacobs." I 
ought to feel flattered. Judge Shepherd said to me yesterday 
"the gentleman who last spoke was Judge Shepherd. It is well 
to know these little things." I assured him that I knew his title 
and would give it to him. Mr. J. D. R, M.D., said to me 
"Take a good look at me, Mr. Jacobs, I intend to make a speech 
some day and I want you to know me. You'll remember it?" 
"Yes, sir," a little better than you think. There is a great deal 
of human nature in men. 

Thursday, December ticclfth. Mr. Frierson of Tennessee 
came to me today and asked me to give him some of my phono- 
graphic reports. I gave him a book full of Convention and As- 
sembly reports and he made me write in it "William P. Jacobs 
to the Tennessee Historical Society." Is not that enough to make 
me foolish? He thanked me for the book and said that it would 
be of a great deal of importance and value to them. We heard 
today of the terrible fire that has swept through Charleston. 
The old and venerable Circular church has lowered its venerable 
head, the proud Cathedral, Babylon the great has fallen, the In- 
stitute Hall, the hotbed of secession is swept away. All alike 
are lost forever. This is the greatest fire that ever occurred in 
Charleston, seven millions of dollars in one day have been lost 
forever. 

Saturdaii^ December fourteenth. It is a great pleasure to 
me to meet up with hundreds almost always saying, "I knew your 
father, he and I were great friends at college," or wherever else 
it may be that they met. I am greatly gratified at such manifes- 
tations of respect for my father. 

Sunday, December fifteenth. Dr. Palmer is beautiful. Dr. 
Thornwell is strong. Dr. Palmer is polished. Dr. Thornwell, 
wonderfully earnest. Dr. Palmer is refined in thought. Dr. 
Thornwell is broad, deep, clear. 

Thursday, December ticenty-sixth. (Laurens, S. C. — Editor). 
This village is situated in a valley — very pretty situation that — 
but as the town is built it cannot be helped — so we mwst make 
the most of it. The courthouse is a new and very pretty build- 
ing — the largest in town. There are four churchevS — the Pres- 
byterian, Episcopalian, Baptist, and Methodist. There were for- 
merly two hotels which were burnt down and one of the two is 



88 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

being built up again. The Post Office is a board shanty, jewelry 
shop, half letterboxes. I must not omit to mention the Laurens- 
ville Railroad, one of the most accommodating roads in the coun- 
try which will stop for you to get out and talk a quarter of an hour 
with a friend and get on again so that you be not left behind. 
Opposite is a view of Laurensville Female College, the house on 
the left is our house and that on the right is at present inhabited 
by a Mr. Harris. 

Sunday, December twenty -ninth. I would imagine that there 
are about five or six hundred people in the village and the popu- 
lation is slowly increasing. 

Monday, December thirtieth. The college reopened today 
and occasionally I hear the bell calling to recitations. I hope 
that the girls may enjoy their college days at least as much as 
I did. 



Tuesday^ December thirty-first. And thus have I again ar- 
rived at the termination of another year — a year fraught 
with even richer experiences to me than the last — a year won- 
derful in changes to myself and our family. This year has closed 
forever to me my college life and has made me an Artium Batch- 
elor. In this year I have gained rich experience in life, have 
passed through one of the most eventful periods in the history 
of the country. I have seen stars fall one by one from the flag 
of the once glorious United States. A new nation has arisen 
upon the earth, the Confederate States of America and I am a 
citizen of it, proud indeed of the honor. A bloody year to our 
land has this been. The first echoes of the mighty struggle has 
sounded in my ears on the 8th of January. News of thrilling 
interest has continually flown on lightning wings along the wire 
at Sumter — at Bethel, Springfield, Belmont, Port Royal, Manas- 
sas, Leesburg and Drainsville, the hosts of contending nations 
have met and fought and bled and southern arms have won the 
field by God's strong aid. But not less important to me also has 
been this year. I have stood since the first day of January last 
on the ever sounding banks of the Atlantic and watched its proud 
waters lash a new Republic's shores. I have sped over the wide 
prairies of Alabama, and have floated down its majestic river. I 
have stood too in sight of the wondrous mountain at Lithonia 
and have gazed down the ever rolling waters of the Savannah. 
But in another aspect my life has been marked by this year. In 
it I have begun my life-long studies, things new and strange, and 
have met minds of other men and learned to know them. Happy 
the thought that 1 have made some friends this year. I have 
been roreived n^ ?i candidate for the Gospel Ministry and have 



AGE EIGHTEEN— 1861 



89 



» 



preached my first sermon besides doing other first things; not 
least important I have written by first book and had it printed. 
I have done much in the publishing line and I have attended and 
reported the first Presbyterian General Assembly. Many other 
things could I mention which God has done for me but are not 
these enough? And now the year is gone. Have I profited from 
my year's experience? To me a solemn question is this. A year is 
gone, a year nearer to that home from which no traveler returns. 
Oh, Lord, so teach me to number my days that I may apply my 
heart unto wisdom. 

Farewell to 1861. 



CHAPTER FIV 

1862— Age 19 



Mother gave me an account a week or two ago of some 
strange phenomena in the experience of aunt Dorothea Lee which 
the above narration calls to my mind. When about 15 years old 
she was unfortunately injured accidentally in the back but seem- 
ed to take no special notice of the injury at the time. At night, 
however, she roused up her sisters and gravely informed them 
that the judgement day was at hand and bade them say their 
prayers. This created such an uproar that the family was 
brought together and then began a series of the most wonderful 
nightly entertainments on the part of the afflicted. Around the 
room there was a ledge about three feet from the floor which 
it seemed impossible for a cat to stand. She would mount 
that however and run rapidly round and round the room, with- 
out once tripping. Then she would imagine herself a racehorse 
and dash furiously up and down four flights of stairs and at such 
a rapid pace that other members of the family who would at- 
tempt to prevent her could scarcely mount one flight before she 
would be at the top. At other times she would give vent to 
strains of almost heavenly music or quote long pieces of poetry 
which not only the family but even she herself was utterly un- 
acquainted with. She would at times imagine herself travelling 
in polar or tropical countries and would give most accurate and 
thrilling accounts of the scenes before her imagination, though 
otherwise she was perfectly unacquainted with the subject. But 
the most remarkable of her somnambulistic traits was this — 
that she could read the finest print in such darkness, that others 
could not distinguish faces; — and even Latin and French she 
would read and accurately pronounce, tho totally ignorant of 
the language. She was placed under the medical care of Dr. 
Moultrie and finally recovered after about six months; — at this 
date she is about forty-two or three and though somewhat ner- 
vous is otherwise in good health and dislikes extremely for any- 
one to mention the subject in her presence. 

On the twelfth I received the sad intelligence that Presly 
was very ill and that he would be sent up to the Confederate Hos- 
pital here. I met him however, at the Charleston R. R. depot 

91 



92 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and carried him on up home to Laurensville. I was entertained 
on the way by a Mr. Clark who had brought P. up from Poco- 
tahgo and who gave me some Munchausen like accounts of the 
low country. He was a very kind, good fellow and when he 
parted company from me at Froglevel, I was quite sorry. When 
we reached Laurensville, I found father waiting at the depot 
and we got up home at once in Dr. Simpson's carriage. I do love 
home. 

The great victory of the enemy at Donaldson, the ignomin- 
ous surrender of Nashville and the evacuation of Columbia for 
a while had a depressing effect upon the people and humbled 
them as a nation before God on the fast day appointed by Jeff 
Davis, on the 28th day of February. On that day Dr. Thornwell 
delivered one of the most stirring patriotic addresses I have 
ever heard. He tried to rouse the people up to a right patriotic 
spirit and make them feel the greatness of the crisis that has 
fallen upon them. He bade them remember Thermopylae, Mara- 
thon and Salamis and gave a soul stirring description of heroic 
Greece. He most terribly rebuked the ''mean, despicable, low, 
detestible, contemptible wretches who could make their country's 
loss their gain," and bade every man to take his gun and if he 
had no gun, his pistol and if he hadn't that, his hatchet, his hoe 
"anything that will kill" and go and defend their wives, their 
daughters and their sisters. This speech and the ladies of this 
town have had the effect of breaking up the college and stirring 
up the seminary to an unusual degree. We have requested the 
faculty to give us their opinion of our duty in the present crisis. 
The governor has called for five more regiments and will prob- 
ably have to draft for them. Of course, though I cannot other- 
wise reconcile it with my duty, if I am in danger of being draft- 
ed, I will volunteer. 

March twelfth. The whole seminary for the past week, has 
been in a perfect Babel of Confusion — there has been no study- 
ing. The faculty instead of giving us an answer to our request, 
after two long sessions, resolved not to advise us. We took this 
to be a constructive advice to leave. Dr. Thornwell and Dr. Ad- 
ger were openly in favor of our taking that course, and several 
of the students prepared to leave at once. Bro. Watson has left 
to take charge of a regiment as chaplain. Others of the brethren 
go this evening. Last evening, however, the faculty advised all 
the students to remain and as 1 understood it they stand a 
draft which Senator Chesnut, one of the governor's council says 
is no di.sgrace! I doubt it. The faculty will publicly state their 
opinion this evening. 



AGE NINETEEN— 1862 93 

March fifteenth. I received from Dr. Cain today a certifi- 
cate stating that I have Amaurosis of the eyes. Dr. Fain will 
sign it and among the list of diseases exempting persons from 
draft is Amaurosis. So that I need give myself no uneasiness 
about the draft. I only wish that I was liable to a draft so that 
I might volunteer for I think that every available man should 
be in arms. 

April twenty-fifth. In looking back over this term I think 
that I have made considerable progress : I have gained a pretty 
good knowledge of Hebrew and some of Chaldee and Syriac 
(though very slight). I have read through the New Testament 
both in Greek and Latin. I have got a critical knowledge of 
much of the four gospels and the first epistle to Timothy. I 
have read many of the Psalms and the book of Joshua (in my 
private study) in Hebrew. I have written four sermons, have 
gained much knowledge of our church government and of The- 
ology. Have got a more comprehensive view of the plan of sal- 
vation. I have read several German books — have written a good 
deal for the press (principally reports). I have got a better and 
more enlarged view^ of the history narrated in the Bible and have 
read nuich besides picking up a good many wayside hints and 
getting many peculiarities rubbed off by intercourse with the 
brethren. I trust, too, that I have learned something of prac- 
tical experimental piety. On the whole I feel somewhat satis- 
fied with what I have done, when I take into consideration the 
many hindrances I have met, arising from the distracted state 
of the country; ill health, inability to study at night on account 
of weak eyes and other peculiar sins and troubles some of which 
I trust God has enabled me to overcome. 

April twenty -seventh. I heard several days ago from Dr. 
Howe a very interesting incident in regard to the war. On the 
21st of last July Dr. Palmer of New Orleans came down from 
the pulpit and told his congregation that he had been all day 
long oppressed with a sensation that there had been going on in 
Virginia a great battle. He could not account for the feeling but 
he had it nevertheless and so he requested the people of the con- 
gregation to join in prayer for the country. The effect was elec- 
tric. They did so. And the next day came the news of the bat- 
tle of Manassas. On the 6th of April last he descended the pul- 
pit stairs, said the same words and made the same request. The 
effect was wonderful. The next day came the news of Ihe battle 
at Corinth. 

May second. After some deliberation I resolved to see what 
has been called a living miracle, the greatest wonder of the world* 



94 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

This miracle is a little blind, grinning negro of eleven or twelve 
years of age, an idiot in reality and appearance and yet who has 
the most remarkable power over the piano. Tom, for that is 
his name, heard his young mistress playing on that instrument 
and having crept into the house through a window, startled the 
whole house by discoursing sweet music. Tom is a perfect idiot 
but his faculties of music and imitation have been wonderfully 
cultivated. It would be wonderful for a blind man to play as 
well as he does but for a blind idiotic negro to do so well is mar- 
velous indeed. Music is his existence. He is happy only in 
music. He lives and breathes music. Even while speaking his 
fingers are running over imaginary keys and he plays over his 
sentences. He puts his whole soul into the piano and thunders 
out his musical sentences with earnestness and expression. He 
played such pieces as the Carnival of Venice, Norma, the Anvil 
Chorus and other simpler pieces such as the Georgia Breakdown. 
A very remarkable feature in his ability to use the piano was 
also shown us. He turned his back to the piano and played 
Yankee Doodle. He then sat down and played "The girl I left 
Behind Me," with one hand, some other piece with the other 
hand and sang Dixie all at the same time. Then, leaving the 
piano his exhibitor would touch various keys but Tom would in- 
stantly tell which were white and which black. Tom also favored 
us with several speeches and songs to display his power of imi- 
tation. But the grandest piece of the evening was the last, a 
piece of Tom's own arrangement, entitled the Battle of Manas- 
sas. It thrilled me through and through. I listened with intense 
interest to the Southerners with fife and drum playing 'The girl 
I left behind me" far off in the distance gradually growing loud- 
er and louder as it approached; — the march of the grand Union 
Army from Washington, playing Dixie, the preparation for bat- 
tle. Suddenly a cannon's roar startled us. Cannon after can- 
non rose high above the southern band playing the Marsellaise 
hymn and intermingled with Dixie. Cannon after cannon min- 
gled with peal after peal of musketry; the sharp crack of rifles. 
Suddenly above the roar of artillery rose the shrill whistle of 
the steam car, imitating the puffing and blowing of the engine, 
bringing in Kirby Smith's division. Then rout and confusion 
seized the northern hordes. Horse trampled on man and man 
on fellowmen. The scene was thrilling and the heart could not 
but swell with emotion. Tom made the instrument speak. Could 
I help being delighted and entertained? And yet at times the 
saddening thought of the poor fellow's idiocy would cross my 
mind. Perhaps not many days hence, his eyes may be opened 
and his mind unbarred and he may tune his harp around the 
everlasting throne of God. If envy could find a place in heaven, 



AGE NINETEEN— 1862 96 

we might then, envy poor Tom his lot. Music is his God or 
rather his God is music. Then will he know and reverence the 
God of music. Tom is to me, indeed a puzzle. The phrenologists 
say that their art fails them in explaining Tom for they cannot 
find in him any music bumps. 

May seventeenth. Cousin Charlie McKnight lost his arm in 
the battle of Williamsburg. I feel for Kate. 

May eighteenth. Early this morning, being Sunday, at 
father's request I got Brother Riley's horse to fulfill father's 
appointment at Bethany, 10 V2 miles distant. The day being very 
cloudy I found the ride there very pleasant though quite fatigu- 
ing. After riding five miles I stopped to inquire the way and 
was told by an old lady that Bethany was yet ten miles off. 
That I knew could not be so and was gratified a mile farther 
on, to find it but five miles off. Inquiring my way as I went, 
thinking over my sermon, communing with God and my own 
soul, wondering at the vicissitudes of life, watching the pretty 
birds that kept continually flitting about me, the sparrows and 
partridges and plenty of similar game, I passed time pleasantly 
enough until I reached church. There I became acquainted with 
the elders and Elder Byrd bade me take my own way. One old 
gentleman, an elder from Duncan's Creek suggested that as it 
was raining I should be short. I must confess that I trembled 
a little as I ascended the pulpit stairs and that on several oc- 
casions my wits forsook me and fled. Once or twice I felt my 
courage oozing out at the tips of my fingers. The congregation 
was very large, considering the weather and I got considerably 
warmed up on my subject : "Who among us shall dwell with the 
devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting 
burnings?" When I concluded old Mr. Saxon cordially invited 
me to dine with him and I accepted his invitation. On reaching 
his house young Mrs. Saxon extended the welcome and I did 
justice to her good dinner. I had occasion to speak about their 
souls' condition to two negroes, one of whom seemed deeply 
touched by the morning's discourse, the other was a member of 
the church. As it had now cleared off I bade Mr. and Mrs. Saxon 
goodbye and thanked them for their kindness. My ride home 
was not so pleasant as I was continually in danger of losing the 
way and both I and my horse were nearly exhausted. Neverthe- 
less I had many pleasant thoughts. Thus was preached my sec- 
ond sermon. May God give me grace to preach with power and 
with the Spirit. I reached home (Laurens, S. C. where his father 
was the president of the Laurensville Female College — Editor) 
in the evening almost tired down and found pleasant company 
there waiting me. 



96 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

May tiventij- fifth. My plan of study at present is about as 
follows : I begin every morning at eight o'clock and after an 
invocation of God's blessing, I read a couple of chapters in the 
Latin and Greek testaments, a chapter in Hebrew. I then study 
the Hebrew, Chaldee and Syriac grammar and read some in 
Cicero's Tusculan disputations in Latin and Schiller's Maid of 
Orleans in German. After this I study on one day Sir William 
Hamilton's Metaphysics and on the next the exposition of the 
Confession of Faith. In both these studies I am deeply inter- 
ested. I generally close my morning studies by reading church 
history and studying on a sermon. I then return thanks to God 
for His assistance, during the. day and proceed to any general 
reading I may have on hand. 

June eleventh. My days pass slowly and peacefully along, 
disturbed by thoughts of my poor suffering land. Would that 
I could join in my country's army yet let me not repine for it 
is God who has made me what I am and even though he slay me 
or what is as bad, though He should make me totally blind, yet 
I trust that He will enable me not to repine and still to trust in 
Him. I know of but one remedy for my blindness and that will 
cost me five to seven hundred dollars. It is this: as soon as I 
finish my seminary course, I will do my very best to go to Europe 
and have my eyes treated at Paris or at London and of course 
then to continue my travels through Europe. I think the great- 
ness of the risk justifies me in doing this. I received yesterday 
a letter from Presley. He had fallen back from Fredericksburg 
to Richmond. He fainted on the way and was left in the road and 
was fortunately picked up sometime afterwards by two old school- 
mates of his in the first Regiment L. C. V. His health had been 
quite good until then. To prepare for that projected trip to 
Europe mentioned above I ought to be learning the art-science 
of word painting. I believe that I can give a general description 
of scenery but set me to describing a town and you set a poor 
hand to work. I can talk of "turrets rising in the distance," of 
the "silver threads of water wound around the hills" of "bald 
peaks jutted out from the backbone of the world" but when 1 
am told to particularise and describe the river, the mountains, 
or the city, I am somewhat in the predicament of Yankee Doodle 
of whom it is affirmed. "He said he couldn't see the town, there 
were so many houses." Laurensville, for instance, I could scarce- 
ly get into a poetical or historical narrative though perhaps I 
might get it written down to be put up for sale as follows: Vil- 
lage at Laurens, S. C. population 8-900. R. R. communication 
with Newberry. Thirty miles by turnpike to Union, 35 to Spar- 
tanburg, 75 to Columbia, etc. Situation in a valley, location 
healthy, on Little River (quite a little river). Public buildings. 






AGE NINETEEN— 1862 97 

a very neat courthouse and a handsome Female College, jail and 
churches, about a hundred houses in the place; perhaps a few 
more; from 12 to 15 stores. Daily mail. Good water. Provis- 
ions abundant. How tame that would sound in a book of travels! 
I might have spoken of it as a lovely country village, situated in 
a picturesque valley on the banks of a meandering stream, whose 
purling fills with sweet music its voiceless streets. Of the air 
scented with perfume from its many gardens, of its courteous men, 
of its fair women and beautiful sprightly girls. Oh, I might 
tell of a thousand things, did time suffice and were I able. 

July first. As I strolled down the village, I noticed an un- 
usually large number of persons in the streets and then I re- 
membered that it was ordered that all conscripts should enroll 
themselves on the first of July at the courthouse of their district. 
I sauntered toward the courthouse and found at least four hun- 
dred men assembled, most of them pleading exemption. But 
so sheepish did many of them appear that I at once conjectured 
that they were veritable unavoidable conscripts. There was a 
perfect jam about the desk of the enrolling officer and the study 
of the eager interested anxious faces was exceedingly interest- 
ing. I am among the exempts though I would most earnestly 
that I was not . . . We have just heard that Presly is safe. 

Juhj thirteenth. About eight o'clock Mr. Holmes sent a 
vehicle over for me. I mounted and was soon on the way to 
Clinton. On the way I resolved not to preach the sermon I had 
prepared but to preach the very first one I ever wrote on "Jesus 
Wept" etc. On reaching the door, I found the congregation al- 
ready assembled and after various introductions I succeeded in 
beseeching a Mr. Rose to raise the tunes for me. He at last 
complied and did finely. I preached with earnestness and I trust 
that I succeeded in overcoming the feeling of '*Is not this great 
Babylon that I have built" which often afflicts the minister. I 
lost sight of self and caught sight of Christ. Invariably will the 
minister find this to be the case. 1 — Lose yourself. 2 — Find 
Christ. Both are coordinates, one of the other. The negroes 
V/ere very earnest and attentive and many of the whites, nay most 
of the whites were also. I trust some good was accomplished and 
I hope no evil. I took dinner at Mr. Phinney's and a good din- 
ner it was ... I started home immediately after dinner and feel- 
ing sleepy I gave the reins to the boy. After a short doze I 
roused myself with the sensation that we were at a halt. Sure 
enough we were at a standstill. The boy was asleep, the reins 
in the bottom of the buggy and the horse quietly grazing by the 
wayside. "Why Billy" said I "this will never do!" He started 
up suddenly and soon we were again on the way. I watched 



98 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

him closely for a while but as he seemed to be wide awake I 
again began to doze. Suddenly I felt a severe jar, the buggy was 
down in a gully and both traces had been unloosened and the 
horse was about to walk off. The negro had gone to sleep again. 
After that I kept my eyes open and we reached home in safety. 
I met Mr. Adams again and he says that I must come down to 
Shady Grove next Sunday and he will have a buggy to meet me. 

July fifteenth. Cousin Kate P. McK. left us this morning for 
Virginia. I am sure that I for one will miss her a great deal. 
I really feel brotherly love for her and no wonder for she has 
ever been as an older sister to me. 

July twenty -third. The house in which I was had been own- 
ed during the revolution by John Boland, a tory and along the 
road in front, Tarleton passed on his way to Cowpens and in the 
negro quarters just opposite he had pitched his camp. Six miles 
away he had fought the battle of Bush River. Tarleton's head- 
quarters were for a while in John Boland's house and the family 
were well pleased with the honor. When Tarleton was about 
to leave, he called on the family to thank them for their kind- 
ness and turning to John Boland, Jr. a youth of sixteen he in- 
vited him to join him. "No! Col. Tarleton!" screamed out old 
Mrs. Boland. ''Don't ye tek John wi' you or you'll get whooped !" 
**How?" asked the Colonel. '*Whoi the whigs came along and 
tuk him oncet and they got whooped and then the Tawries tuk 
him and they got whooped. Don't ye tek him or ye'll get whoop- 
ed too!" 'Tall into ranks, Johnny" ordered Tarleton. ''I'll take 
my chance, too." Johnny fell into ranks and came back shortly 
after with the tale that Col. Tarleton had got pretty badly 
"whooped" at Cowpens. John Boland took out a "protection" 
from the British but that only gave them a good pretext for 
preying on his property which they did pretty freely. 

August second. The sad news reached us today of the death 
of Dr. James H. Thornwell. He died suddenly on the first at 
Charlotte, N. C. of typhoid pneumonia. When I confess that my 
eyes were filled with tears and my heart was depressed with 
sorrow I only confess what many others will be compelled to 
throughout the land. The greatest man in the Southern Confed- 
eracy is dead! The last time I saw him was when I bade him 
goodbye just before the seminary closed. "Goodbye, Brother 
Jacobs. May God bless you and take care of you" were his last 
words to me. I will prize them as the blessing of the greatest 
man I ever knew. What a cause of regret to the world is this 
noble man's death. He was nature's nobleman. A more talented 
and yet more humble man I never heard of. A more genial com- 



AGE NINETEEN— 1862 99 

panion and a sincerer Christian could hardly exist. Dr. Thorn- 
weW is fit for heaven and now he is sitting down conversing 
^'ith his great companions — Luther, Calvin, Knox — with Paul 
and Peter. Nay more, with the holy and ever beloved idol of his 
^eart — Jesus, the mediator of the Covenant. May God put it 
into the heart of a skillful writer to narrate his life and edit 
his immortal works. What a grand first fruits of Southern 
Christian literature it will be. 

Auffust twenty-ninth. I have gotten into a stern fit of the 
blues at the prospect of my early departure for the seminary 
jnder such inauspicious circumstances. How can I leave father 
ind mother or good dear "Aunt Becky." How can I say good- 
oye even to Lula or dear little Mamie. The little moist drops 
^'ill wash the corners of my eyes, and if I try to whistle my 
whistle sticks to neither treble or base but flutters mournfully 
ibout. Even my hands thrust themselves nervously into my 
pockets. I had a mournfully prospective dream last night, which 
appeased my anxiety to return no little. How changed will be 
everything there; how very changed! The bare thought is suf- 
ficient to sadden. The lively, merry Cozby and Banks and Otts 
ire gone. Poor, doleful, witty Brother Cleveland with his songs 
and tales gone. Green, McKinnon, Law gone, gone, all gone. 
Dnly one or two left and they doubtfully left. All the rest, alas 
me! gone, gone forever. I'll shut the page. I do not love sad 
pictures or sorrowing scenes. I do not love to dwell on that 
ivhich only grieves but I cannot bear the thought of eight soli- 
;ary months. God grant that I may be happily disappointed in 
fny unpleasant forebodings. 

August thirtieth.. I have just come across the following 
amusing Latin doggerel. 

In Pintaris 
In Oaknonis 
In Mudelis 
In Clanonis 
tvhich may be thus translated : 
In my search after knowledge, these truths I've made mine: 
Though in oak is found none, yet much tar is in pine. 
And strange to declare, tho long eels live in mud 
Yet clay they despise and won't live near a clod. 

[ am much perplexed now as to my future life in Columbia. I 
have just come to the conclusion to obtain such provisions as 
[ can carry with me to Columbia and there set up boarding 
Dn my own account. I have consulted with father and David 
Todd on the subject and both so recommend. So will I do, if 



100 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

God will. I have not money enough to throw away. 

I have been scouring the country for the past two days 
searching for provisions but have failed, miserably failed. I 
have but one or two more places to try and then farewell to all 
my endeavors. 

Mrs. Dr. Simpson in the goodness of her dear soul, sent me 
over a ham and other things to live on during the next session 
of the Seminary. I bade them all at home goodbye with tears in 
my eyes. Dear, dear folks at home. 

Back to the Seminary 

I have steamed full tilt right into Columbia. I have bother- 
ed my five wits half out about my luggage which goes as high 
up as No. 6. I have at last paid seventy five cents to a drayman 
and walked through the hot sun to the Seminary. But stop, one 
bright spot in the w^orld of vexation and trouble. A glimpse and 
a bow from Miss Susie. A smile in the turmoil and my heart is 
mirthful in my sadness. I went to Brother Porter's room and 
found him the sole occupant of forty eight rooms. I selected 
dear good George Petrie's room and slept therein at night and 
had it prepared for my reception in the morning. I worked hard, 
unpacked my books and trunks and have lived three full weeks 
in as many days. I whistled and sang to drive away the blues 
which however have come gradually stealing over me. The more 
they came the more banged I away, unpacking my boxes. At 
last one little tiny something fell on my hand. I looked at it 
with amazement. It was a drop of salt water. That must never, 
never be. Away I worked with redoubled vigor, but the blue 
devils danced around me like mad. I threw down my duds and 
took up a pitcher and ran to the well. I determined to wash my 
face and thus drown my tears. Alas! alas me! It was to no 
-purpose. I've got the blues! Like a vice have they seized me 
--and I wince under their grasp. I have been down town a dozen 
times, have met with lots and cords of old acquaintances, among 
them Charlie and Allie Webb but even that has not cured me. 
Ko — this solitary seminary with only two students is too much 
even for my merry spirits. I wish I had got another glimpse 
of Miss Susie and another smile from her that would have done 
some good but that is denied me. There! Brother Porter has 
bid me goodbye until tomorrow evening. He is gone off to 
preach. I am left indeed and most mournfully "all alone in my 
glory." I will go down to see Charlie and Allie tonight. "That" 
says Brother P. *'will kill some time" — Heaven forgive me. Never 
mind. Old Dr. Adger shook hands with me most cordially and 



AGE NINETEEN— 1862 101 

bade me welcome. And i^ood old Dr. Howe — and Dr. Leland, 
Woodrow, Porter, Lawson, all have bade me welcome. I met Dr. 
Wier of Shady Grove memory just now. That was a little con- 
solation. They didn't know me at Townsend and North's. 
Averill invited me to see him. He sold me some salt. My pen 
refused to work. It is no go. The sun is down. The Seminary 
won't open and I've got the blues. I will withdraw my thoughts 
tomorrow from self, write home, read, study, go to church, do 
anything to drive off the blues. 

Brother Arbuthnot and Mr. Boggs got over on Monday and 
have both moved over to our floor. We will now have a much 
more lively time. Dr. Howe paid me a friendly visit and ex- 
pressed his hope that the exercises of the seminary would be re- 
sumed. He w^as very cordial in his greeting. Brother Porter 
and myself have started a club and are getting on very hand- 
somely. The times are rather hard but we succeed at any rate 
in living. Brother Arbuthnot has signified his desire to join it 
and Brother Chandler already has ... It was reserved for me to 
enjoy on Wednesday night the crowning pleasure of the week. 
On that evening Dr. Palmer delivered a eulog\' of the life and 
labors of Dr. Thornwell in the Presbyterian Church house to a 
house that it would not be very hyperbolic to style — jammed — 
and the audience hung on his impassioned words, with breathless 
attention. His own frame quivered with emotion, and the heart 
chords of his audience thrilled to his masterly touch. Not a 
w^ord was lost of that grand eulogy of one great man upon an- 
other and while he spoke I felt continually — how awful is the 
loss. In glowing words he led the youthful Thornwell from his 
native college and sat him amid judges and chancellors in a Pres- 
ident's chair. He drew an outline of his character — his filling 
in showed the hand of a master-artist, his simple style of read- 
ing — as any other man would read — w^as completely lost sight 
of in the grandeur of his periods and the overwhelming majesty 
of his expression. Deep, silent, grand flowed on the monarch 
river and men felt while he spoke. And when he spoke of the 
death of the immortal man — of his comparative silence — of his 
stupor and the few w^ords that escaped his lips — we wept. He 
told how in his last moments smiles of unspeakable beauty play- 
ed around and over his countenance and only single ejaculations 
of "wonderful — amazing — expanse — expanse — expanse," told of 
the glorious foretaste of immortality he was enjoying. And his 
closing words led us up through the shining gates of heaven and 
showed us the seraphic Thornwell in immortal conv^se with 
Beza and Calvin and Luther, with the thousands of thousands 
that sit about the throne so that even a gladdening smile came 



102 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

over every countenance, their murmurs of discontent were hush- 
ed and for a moment we were persuaded to rejoice that our 
Thornwell was in Heaven. 

I saw at the Carolinian office a few days ago one of the 
iron vests worn by the enemy. It was taken from an officer who 
had been killed. It was of solid iron. 

Since writing the above our year's work has begun in 
earnest and we recite now to Dr. Adger, Dr. Palmer, Dr. Howe, 
Dr. Leland and Dr. Woodrow. All our professors suit me precise- 
ly and I begin for the first time in many a day to feel like a 
student. My homesickness is wearing off, though in the air 
around me, even now fair faces float. I do love home and I 
have been making arrangements with Brother Todd who is him- 
self at last with us, to go up and preach for him on some oc- 
casion so that I can go on home and surprise all the dear home- 
folks. Our club is now fairly under way. I have been elected 
treasurer and I feel the responsibility of the undertaking. 

A Neiv Life Given 

Yesterday about this time (October 28th) I was engaged 
in very severe exercise and immediately standing by the fire, I 
began to feel a gradual dizziness creeping over me. I leaned my 
head against the mantle — Here follows a blank in my existence 
of which I cannot give the slightest account. I fell and in my 
fall a heavy table was pushed far away from me and my head 
must have struck the gas pipe with some force for on recovering 
I found it still vibrating with some force. I found myself lying 
upon the floor — stunned almost a second time by the strange 
thoughts that thronged in upon me. I have not the slightest 
recollection of where I was or how I came there. I imagined 
that there had been a terrible earthquake and that I had been 
dashed down with stunning effect. I, after some effort, rose 
uninjured and then the truth flashed across me, that I had faint- 
ed. It was almost a miracle that I did not fall in the fire but 
God watched over me. It was almost a miracle that I did not 
break my neck by the fall but God watched over me. It it not 
then my imperative duty to render up myself anew to Him? 

November thirty-firfit. I was also quite astonished this 
morning, to be informed by Presbytery which is now in session 
that I must attend tomorrow and have part of my examination 
gone over. Of course, I did as I was bid — I came home and pre- 
pared myself as well as I could on Hebrew and read over my 
Latin exercises and critical exerciso. When I went to the Pres- 
bytery, they called me up and I read the pieces and they ap- 



AGE NINETEEN— 1862 103 

proved them with much cordiality. I was then examined by Dr. 
Howe on some passages of Canticles and I thought that the 
Presbytery was also pleased with my examination. They also 
sustained the examination. My other two pieces were assigned 
me by Dr. Howe. My sermon is to be on all or part of Hebrew 
IV, 15-16 and my lecture on all of Hebrew XII, 18-29. Both are 
sublime passages to which, alas! my feeble pen will fail to do 
justice. God help me and sustain me in preparing them. 

But one pleasure, mother gave me. She told me she had 
heard from Presly and that he and Ferdie had met in Virginia 
and had been together a whole day before they knew each other. 
Then Ferdie is still alive. Thank God, I am indeed glad that 
they have met. 

This grand battle of Fredericksburg seems to have set every- 
body to predicting peace, yet I can't see the end of this unfor- 
tunate war. The railroads are getting rickety-rackety. Acci- 
dents are occurring every day. I did feel a little skittish or rather 
a good deal of the nervous. Every day before I started for a 
week there was an accident on one of the two roads. 

The railroad was rickety but God brought me safely to Co- 
lumbia to see the closing year. 1862 is passed away. Its deeds 
are registered in Heaven. Its voice is gone forth. The words 
are spoken. One year less between my soul and eternity! Have 
I lost the year? I hope not, God knoweth. If I have done evil, 
may its memory be blotted out and its injurious effects cease for- 
f ever, and if I have done well? 



CHAPTER SIX 



1863— Age 20 

I love to look deep into an expressive eye. Miss Julia L. 
has such an eye. Miss Carrie L. has such an eye. I am an ad- 
mirer of natural beauty everywhere. 

I will call nothing mine but God, no man master but God, 
no man father but God, no place home but Heaven, remembering 
that *'all is momentary that delights us, all in momentary that 
afflicts." All that is not eternal is nothing. 

Tuesdaij night. I was the preacher in the seminary chapel. 
I preached fluently and without notes, much to my gratification. 
Dr. Howe criticizes me for too much vim. Dr. Adger for un- 
pleasantly accenting the first word of every sentence and for 
too much nervousness. Dr. Woodrow for hyperbole. These 
faults are very grave and I will try to correct them, though I 
can't but think that my ''hyperbole" as quoted by Dr. Woodrow 
was literally and exactly true. 

March fifteenth. This Sabbath is my twenty-first birthday. 
It has brought in my manhood ; it has clothed me with the virile 
toga, Behold! young man, the duties it has brougth with it. 
You are to put off boyish things and henceforth be a man. You 
are to put off worldly things and henceforth be a Christian. 
You are to put on the gospel armor and henceforth act the part 
of a consistent minister of the gospel. You are no longer to 
shirk duty under the assumed name of "youth." You are a man! 
You cannot shirk it. You cannot evade it. It presses home upon 
your heart. It strikes down into your soul. It demands the 
vigorous use of your intellect. It lays claim upon your body. 
Man! what wilt thou do? Preach a sermon unto yourself. 
Choose you this day whom you will serve. God or self. Speak 
and then act. 

1. I give myself wholly to God. 

2. 1 give myself wholly to the work of the Ministry. 

3. I utterly repudiate self, sin and Satan. 

4. I live for the good of the world. 

5. I live for God's cause on earth. 

6. I live for the world to come. 

104 



AGE TWENTY— 1863 105 

On Thursday morning, April 2nd, I was aboard the train, 
hurrying on through brake and brier to Charleston. No little dis- 
turbed was I as to my licensure for I felt my total unprepared- 
ness. I read over a good many notes and pored over the Confes- 
sion of Faith to my heart's content, until I drew near to Charles- 
ton. Each leaf, each tree seemed to speak to me of days gone 
by and I fancied I could hear the same old bird notes that I used 
to love and as Charleston hove in sight, my heart leaped within 
me. Each tall heaven-pointing spire, rising above the rest, 
brought back a thousand tender recollections. The old rumbling 
omnibus in which I rode, jolted me perhaps a hundred times be- 
fore in those happy times of peace. I drew up before Mr. Lock- 
wood's and cousin Becky came out to meet me with a kiss. That 
evening I walked on the battery with Arbuthnot ; the same old 
breezes came bustling in. The same waves dashed over the par- 
apet, but how changed everything else. Great earthworks were 
thrown up on the eastern corner, through the portholes of which 
were pointed the ominous mouths of forty-two pounders. A new 
fort (Ripley) had risen out of the waters — a hundred tents were 
strewing all the green and the busy forms of soldiers were seen 
everywhere. Suddenly the tattoo beat. The men hurried to obey 
the call, companies wheeled into line. Battalion touched bat- 
talion. The band struck up. The clinking of bayonets, the glit- 
tering of swords and the words of command were mingled — a 
thousand men drawn up in battle order graced the grounds. 

After a long walk I discovered that the Presbytery had 
changed its place of session. In the lecture room of the Central 
Church. I read my pieces of trial. I was examined by Dr. 
Smythe on church history and Dr. Leland on Theology and my 
examination was concluded. At the close of the day's exercises 
I was licensed. Dr. Cunningham presiding. The responsibility 
of a Christian preacher is thrown upon my shoulders and that 
responsibility I must bear unflinchingly. I do solemnly appeal to 
God in this hour .of trial for his divine assistance and I know 
that he will grant it. He never leaves his servants forsaken. 
He is with me always, even to the end of the world. 

Abstract of the Minutes of the Charleston Presbj/tery. 

Charleston Prebytery met in Zion Church April 2nd and re- 
mained in session only part of two days. There were in attend- 
ance nine ministers and four clerks. Rev. H. B. Cunningham, 
D.D. was chosen moderator and Rev. John Douglas made tem- 
porary clerk. 

William Plumer Jacobs was licensed to preach the gospel on 
the third of April, 1863. It was resolved when Presbytery ad- 



106 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

journ, it adjourn to meet in the Summerville Church on the first 
Thursday of October next at seven o'clock P.M. 

John Douglas, Stated Clerk. 

I explored sadly the vast burnt district in the city and found 
it indeed a mournful spectacle: seas of gaunt chimneys, totter- 
ing walls and mournful pillars. St. Fuibar's is a sad spectacle. 
The ruins of the Circular Church, sadder still. 

I am very sorry to see that Towny Mikell, Laurrie Lee, 
William Baynard, Joe Westcoat, Bob Seabrook and several others 
of my old Edisto friends have been taken prisoners by the en- 
emy. How little they thought as we used to ride out together 
along Edisto's vine covered roads, or the ocean's marge, that in 
a few years on their own grounds, they would have fallen into 
the hands of a ruthless foe. God protect them. 

At Salem — Fairfield District. Sabbath morning we rode to 
the church and became acquainted with Mr. Lauderdale. He in- 
troduced me to Mr. Aiken and Mr. Aiken escorted me to the pul- 
pit. I preached to the whites on "Whom the Lord loveth. He 
chasteneth" — which I was told afterwards was conveniently ap- 
propriate. Then I gave them a precollection talk. The collec- 
tion was taken up and I again ascended the pulpit and preached 
to the negroes on 1 Tim. 1:15. Called on old father Hare to 
lead in the last prayer and he gave it in the Methodist singing 
style. He sang a hymn in it and suddenly changing his voice, 
he added, by way of postscript "This Lord, is the humble prayer 
and your respectful servant. . Amen." The afternoon I spent in 
my room, resting. At night I held a service for the negroes in 
Mrs. Means' passage. I had a very delightful time and preached 
on "My father, if the Prophet" etc. 2 Kings V 13. They seem- 
ed to be very attentive and the Lord assisted me. I then had a 
delightful season of interchange of thought with the family. I 
kissed all the babies and went to bed at eleven-thirty P.M. Early 
in the morning I was up and just as I was driving off, Mrs. Mc- 
Pheeters sent in the sermon she had borrowed. Thus ends my 
first day's work after licensure. The Lord assisted me wonder- 
fully and gave me foretaste of the "comfort, strength and use- 
fulness" he has laid up in store for me. On the train I met a Bap- 
tist preacher, Mr. Campbell, and a Methodist, Mr. McElhenny. 
"We three, brothers be, in one cause." Mr. McE. is blind. 1 met 
him first at Zion. As we were detained five hours I sat down 
and read Alexander's Thoughts on Preaching to him. He also 
read some in his Bible with raised type. 

I received yesterday a letter from Mr. J. A. Mars, extend- 



AGE TWENTY— 1863 107 

ing me an invitation to preach at Gilder's Creek. They wish 
me to preach regularly for them. This is my first offer for my 
services. I thank God for this token of His loving kindness. I 
will, I believe, make an appointment for the second Sabbath in 
May. My appointment for Gilder's Creek has been made for 
the fourth Sabbath in May. The first Sabbath I may go to 
Pendleton for Dr. Adger. 

General Assembly, May seventh. The great, the noble, the 
good Gen. T. J. Jackson is dead. Our arms won a glorious vic- 
tory in Virginia on the Rappahannock on Sunday, the fourth 
but he has not lived to reap his reward. Our hearts are bleeding 
but all that we can do is silently to bend our heads in shame and 
grief and say nothing. He was our idol. We worshipped him 
and God has removed our idol from us. I heard Dr. Leyburn 
preach on the Sabbath from "The Lord is a sun and shield" etc. 
Pretty good sermon. Jackson was killed by the 18th NCV by 
accident. He died of the combined effects of his wounds and 
pneumonia. 

May yiineteenth. At home. ''Whatsoever thy hand findeth 
to do, do it with all thy might." The long and tedious ride to 
Laurens was soon forgotten when once I had crossed over from 
the cars to the college and shaken hands with the dear ones at 
home. Little Mamie, as soon as she caught sight of me, threw 
up her arms in an exstasy of delight crying out "Brother Willie, 
Brother Willie." Father looked pleased. Mother smiled one of 
her pleasantest smiles and Minnie was out in a minute to get a 
kiss. Walked over the way, kissed all around and sat down for a 
little chat, came home and found work cut out for me on the 
Sabbath already. Sabbath morning, mother, father. Miss Kate 
C. and myself went toward Bethany, where I preached on "There 
remaineth, therefore, a rest." Pride deeply humbled. Felt so 
ashamed that I couldn't speak to anyone and came home, weak, 
listless, headachy, tired. 

Mrs. R. speaks as though the two churches Gilder's and 
Shady Grove would unite and tender me a call as soon as I grad- 
uate. I don't know whether to accept it or not. I leave all in 
the hands of God. Got to the R. R. on Monday at Martin's two 
hours before the train and read part of Thornwell on Truth. 
The rain came down in torrents; the cars leaked miserably. 

I received a letter last night (June 2nd) from Mr. Jas. A. 
Maer inviting me to supply Gilder's Creek. They off^r me $50 
for five Sabbaths, that is for one Sabbath for five months. I 
have just written, accepting the offer. I expect to supply Shady 



108 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Grove also. I don't know what they will give me for six months 
service. This is my first regular charge. 

When I reached home, my soul leaped for joy on perusing 
a letter from Presly in which he says he has given himself to 
Jesus. All that I could do was to laugh and cry by turns. Thanks, 
thanks, thanks. May God's name be praised. Here is the end 
of tears and supplications. God is a prayer-hearing and a pray-' 
er-answering God. Oh, joy, joy! 

Oh, my God! that ever Thou didst cause me to write what 
this day must be recorded. My brother, my only brother has 
been snatched away by death. God of Mercy how can I endure 
chastisings ! Lord, Thy stroke has fallen upon me like the 
strokes that Thou alone canst give. He fell at Gettysburg July 
2nd. He fell fighting gallantly with his face to the foe. I can- 
not realize it. I cannot believe it. I thought he would be spared 
to see me again, and I longed to embrace in my arms one who 
had been so lately made to me a double brother — a natural and 
a spiritual. The stroke is heavier than I can bear. What a be- 
reaving year this has been to me. One brother dead, another worse 
than dead. Of the four I alone am left. Presley, Presley would 
to God I could have died for thee, my brother. Why hast thou de- 
parted and left me alone to weep? Dead! dead! Oh my God, Thou 
art terrible in Thy chastenings. I cannot write. All I can do 
is to cry, My God ! My God ! 

After service on Sunday I went over to Mr. Mars. I met 
there an old man Jenkins, 70 years old, a carpenter, who had seen 
General Washington and was a first cousin of General Jenkins. 
From this man's lips I took down this scrap of a revolutionary 
song — 

(Scene: Battle of King's Mountain) 

"And then our guns ceased firing 

They all surrendered up their guns — 

And oh ! to hear the dismal cries 

Their doleful looks and watery eyes, 

The tories we all gathered up 

And set a guard of men around. 

The women, they came flocking round, 

Says one, 'My dear, to see you here! 

Had you but taken my advice, 

But oh, alas! and I'm undone 

Our children's fatherless at home, 

With hearts like load 

Without a bed." 

Tories whipped and ceased firing. 



AGE TWENTY— 1863 109 

To know what they desired. 
Of fighting they were tired. 
The wounded men would you surprise, 
Would make your heart relent, man, 
And put them in a pen, man, 
With arms to keep them in, man, 
To see if husbands could be found 
Does fill my heart with grief, man. 
You never had been here, man, 
Headlong to win, I am run 
Crying for bread 

Or clothes to keep them warm, man. 
.... Cetera desunt. 

We received a letter from Captain Griflfith and another from 
Lieut. Mears of Co. E. 14th Regiment SCV, giving us accounts 
of Presley. He was shot through both thighs and did not sur- 
vive more than an hour. The Lieut, of the Ambulances went up 
to him and he said to him ''Lieutenant, I am gone." "He was 
distinguished" says Griflfith "throughout the Regiment for his 
bravery and soldierly conduct." I will not spare myself to write 
and tear open these wounds afresh. 

Columbia, September thirtieth. My God. To Thee I here 
give myself again. Let Thy law be my law. Let me be called 
by Thy name. Use me as th^ carpenter uses his tools. Do with 
me just as seems good to Thee. Educate precisely as Thou 
wouldst have me. But, Oh, my God, use me. Do not let me 
rust. Ten thousand times rather let me wear out. Make me 
faithful. Make me useful and save me. For Christ Jesus* sake. 
Amen. 

Poor old Dr. Leland has lost his mind. Yesterday (19th 
October) at three o'clock he persisted in believing that it was 
prayer time and to humour him we went into prayers and such 
prayers! They were the merest gibberish: e. g. he prayed that 
our consciences would be delivered. Another petition ran thus 
the only other that I could catch. "Let us burn in spirit. Let 
not the lover burn in the spirit. Women, Arminian. Make us spurt, 
squirt, sturt." It was extremely ludicrous and yet how sad. I 
cannot but shed tears for the poor old man. 

The good people of Shady Grove, Gilder's and Duncan Cr. 
want me to preach for them next summer and board me at Dr. 
Wier's. I hope to be able to gratify them. 

I received a letter from father today in which he hints to 
me that the people at Clinton are going to try for my services. 



110 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

What a quandary this will place me in. I would like to go but 
how can I leave Shady Grove? Here begins my series of trials. 
I scarcely know what to do. God direct me. 

And now as I sit this evening the last of the year in Lau- 
rensville, by father, by his fireside, what glancings of heaven- 
born but broken resolutions. It is a year — 'The Year of Resolves.'* 

Survey then the past. — I have attained my majority. I have 
received two calls and answered one. I have studied, have in- 
creased my library — I have gained friends. Have written many 
sermons, reported the General Assembly. Have preached near 
a hundred sermons and traveled for the cause over two thousand 
miles. Here too, have been broken hopes. "Let the dead past 
bury its dead." Altogether, however, not an unsatisfactory year. 
God grant that I may never do as little in any future year but 
may press onward — onward — onward. The next year, shall 
I divine its secrets? Let them rest. God only knoweth- I aspire 
not to his secrets. Heavenly Father — pardon all the errors that 
I have this year committed. Let my crimes and faults as beacon 
lights be placed high on the dangerous rocks along my voyage 
of life, to warn me in the future. Forgive all those who have 
harmed me in any wise. Help all whom I have injured to forgive 
me and make me worthy of their love and confidence. Encourage 
me in the future. Bless all that I have done well in the past. Blot 
out all the evil of my course. For Jesus' Sake — Amen. 

1864— Age 21 

Mrs. Fraser gave me a beautiful Bible for my birthday pres- 
ent. . . . Shady Grove, Clinton and Duncan's Creek have made out 
calls for me. I am to ask for a dismission from my Presbytery 
to go to South Carolina where the call will be presented. 

Before the day at 4 P. M. I left for Columbia. The cars ran 
well until within three miles of Helena when crash — jump — leap 
— squash we were off the track in a mud puddle. Leaving that 
car behind we got in another and soon reached Newberry and got to 
Columbia in good time. My ordination is to take place on the 
tricentennial anniversary of John Calvin's death. 

May tiventy -seventh. A few days more and I bid a final fare- 
well to the Seminary forever. How old man grows and yet he 
knows it not. He adds minute to minute and hour to hour. He 
lays himself down at three score and ten and knows not how he 
has attained to such an age A few days more of packing up and 
study and on Friday, April 29th I was off again for Clinton. Sat- 



AGE TWENTY-ONE— 1864 111 

urday morning found that Mr. Phinney had fixed me up a very 
nice bookcase. I unpacked my books and arranged them on their 
shelves, went over to see Mrs. Owens, found Mrs. Gregory there 
and well. Rode out on Sabbath to Duncan's Creek, preached there 
and a very much better congregation than I was expecting as- 
sembled. I am much encouraged in regard to this church. I 
trust that God will prosper me in it. I have a very nice room at 
Mrs. Phinney^s and I think that I will be very comfortable there. 
On Monday I returned to Columbia — my last return for many 
a long day. 

And then came the partings — a tear was in Dr. Howe's eye as 
he bade me farewell. "May the divine blessing go with you bro- 
ther Jacobs" said Woodrow. "Remember always when you come 
to Columbia that my house is your home!" But how can I part 
with my dear friends — Mr. Fraser and Gerrie. I cannot. Let 
the curtain drop over the last prayer, the last word, the last tear, 
the last kiss — I feel too sad to write of them. I go but I go with 
this motto: "Glory to God in the Highest!" 

The Beginniyigs of Life at Clinton 

My study room is now fixed up — books unpacked and shelved. 
Everything arranged. I have given myself holyday this week — 
tomorrow I begin in earnest. The duties begin — God give me 
strength. I have taken charge of my parish and I'm trying to get 
through my first round of visiting, have paid eight visits already. 
I find it hard to work uninterruptedly but I am preparing for a 
really glorious time at my books. God, I trust will prosper me. 
I am studying Theology topically, have taken up "predestination." 
I am trying to fit myself for a perfect fulfillment of all the ardu- 
ous duties of life, no matter where I am called. 

I have just received a pair of socks, a very neat present from 
Mrs. Phinney. I am getting very fond of Mr. and Mrs. Phinney. 
Mrs. Owens also I like very much. With Mrs. Tobin, I have re- 
newed acquaintance and am well pleased: I should say delighted. 
Mrs. Dunlap I think I will like. I hope soon to know most of my 
people. Mrs. Beney — Mrs. Gregory and Dr. Ingoldby's families 
are here as refugees. I think I will be highly pleased with them. 
Mrs. Shingler and English are staying in the same house. On the 
next page I have drawn off a rough sketch of Clinton village. 

Sabbath (May 22nd) was for me a busy day. In the morning 
I organized our Sabbath School and eighty scholars signed their 
names to the book. My Bible class numbers 27. It will be a very 
fine class I think. I hope that soon I will be able to getit to meet 
during the week. I am very anxious to have our lecture room 
fixed up, but alas! like everything else it must be postponed till 



112 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

this cruel war is over. I then preached to whites and afterwards 
to the negroes. 

The 27th (the tricentennial anniversary of Calvin's death at 
Noyon) arrived and with it began the solemnities of Friday and 
of my ordination. 

William P. Jacobs, a licentiate has been re- 
ceived by the Presbytery of South Carolina 
and installed over the churches of Clinton 
and Shady Grove, S. C. — Newspaper clipping. 

On Saturday I passed through the trying ordeal. God, let 
me be burning with zeal for Thee. Holmes delivered the charge 
to me, he was kind but earnest. Riley to the people. He spoke 
well and feelingly about paying the preacher. On Sabbath five new 
names were added to the church of such as shall be saved. I ad- 
ministered for the first time the sacraments, both baptism and 
the Lord's supper. Oh, what trying thoughts oppressed me. 
How I almost gloried in my despair. How I feared and yet ex- 
ulted. Monday bright and early I ventured to Columbia to pur- 
chase books for my Sabbath School and they now lie beside me. 

Abstract of the Minutes of the Presbytery of South Caro- 
lina, Fairview Church, Greenville district, April 15th, 16th and 
18th, 1864. 

William P. Jacobs, licentiate, his dismission from the Presbytery of 
Charleston having been presented, was received under the care of this 
Presbytery and calls having been presented for his pastoral labors from 
the churches of Clinton, Duncan's Creek and Shady Grove, and by him ac- 
cepted. Presbytery resolved to proceed to examine him and to hear his 
trial discourses during the present sessions which having been sustained, 
it was resolved that when this Presbytery adjourn to meet at Clinton church 
on Saturday, the 28th of May for the purpose of ordaining and installing 
W. P. Jacobs; that Brother Ferdinand Jacobs preside, preach the sermon, 
etc.; Rev. R. H. Reid his alternate; Rev. Z. L. Holmes, deliver the charge to 
the pastor and Rev. J, S. Wilbanks his alternate; Rev. J. R. Riley, deliver 
the charge to the congregation and Rev. John McLees his alternate. 

I ought to be happy — There is so much to make me happy 
if I would but be. My deepest trouble is that Clinton is so small. 
Indeed it is but a village of three years growth. It would have 
been the size of Laurens by this time had not the war inter- 
fered. I trust that a closed war will wonderfully improve it. 
If I only had a neat parsonage and a nice wife I would be per- 
fectly happy as far as I can foresee. 

Rumours from Virginia seem to foreshadow — Peace! On 
last Sabbath, fourth of June, our Sunday School was organized 



AGE TWENTY-ONE— 1864 113 

to my extreme satisfaction. 118 teachers and scholars now on 
the roll. I must send to Columbia for more books. I am grow- 
ing more and more in love with my church and people. Indeed, 
many of them deserve love. Just see what they have done for 
me. I have received a new suit of clothes and a brand new Pal- 
metto hat in two days. I love my people. I have made arrange- 
ments to preach here three Sabbaths in a month, the extra be- 
ing the night of the third Sabbath. I have also made arrange- 
ments to preach on the first Sabbath at Shady Grove. I will 
also preach the night of the second Sabbath at Clinton. I have 
just returned from a visit to Laurensville, where the dear girls 
of the Senior class were graduating. They made excellent 
speeches especially Eliza English, Lou Gregg, Emma Watts and 
Emma Zimmerman. At night I also attended the concert and 
walked home at night with a friend. Memento: August nineteeth. 
I could not believe it as she leaned so gently and affectionately 
upon my arm. lacovie cave! Cave! Ne in pericula curres. 

I feel almost as though I had done nothing. While I have 
received but 7, my neighbors at the Hurricane seem to be hav- 
ing a large revival. Surely my sins are ruining these churches 
and yet I am puffed up in my own conceit. I feel that the Lord 
is getting ready to humble me. I have been striking ten, eleven, 
twelve and the next stroke must be one! I feel almost ready to 
give up. I am foolish, lazy, ignorant, conceited, proud. Oh God, 
give me light. Help me or I fail. Why have I undertaken this 
work? I cannot go forward. I dare not go backward. Lord 
save or I perish. 

Last Sunday (14th August) I received one lady into the 
church at Clinton ; the one who had been shot by her brother- 
in-law some days ago. I preached in the morning on "Industry" 
Amos 6:1 and I happened in the course of it to tirade the citizens 
for taking no action relative to the soldiers coming here. Tues- 
day evening they met and organized "Clinton Soldiers Relief 
Association". My negro congregation was larger than ever last 
Sunday. I think my two, white and black, numbered 500 or 
over. My efforts to instruct them seem to be appreciated. I 
started a weekly prayer meeting Tuesday but I had to do all the 
praying myself. My Sabbath School (white) numbers 115. 
Average No. present 100! (of w^hich Bible class generally 30 or 
40.) 

I have received some excellent and acceptable presents re- 
cently. Inter alias: A suit of clothes and hat from Mrs. Phinney, 
two coats and vest from Mrs. Ray, a fine pair of glaves from 
Mrs. Tobin and from Mrs. Phinney, a $50.00 bill from Mrs. Mc- 
Dowell saying "I subscribed $10.00 to your salary but that was 



114 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

before I knew you." God bless these dear people. I have been 
on a grand round of visitations and preachifications — to Lau- 
rens where Cousin Charlie McKnight is — to Bro. Riley's where 
I met Mrs. Rev. Peck — to Mr. Holmes — to Rocky Spring where 
15 joined and where I preached eight times and to Mrs. Dillard's 
where I made several pleasant aquaintances. N.B. August 18th, 
1864 got acquainted with a young lady described as follows: 
She is handsome — a member of the Presbyterian Church, 
an elder's daughter; a teacher in Sunday School — a true Chris- 
tian, possesses a good English education, speaks good English, 
sweet voice, member of Bible Class, fine housekeeper and aquaint- 
ed with all details of domestic economy; visits sick, is anxious 
to improve and become better, is innocent, somewhat temperous 
but tries to curb it — sings only enough to raise tunes in church 
— plays on piano but only by ear, studies her Bible, loves to go to 
church, good family, etc. etc. etc. Will she do? Ask Holmes, 
Riley, Mrs. H. and Mrs. Phinney and if they say "yes" ask Miss 
M. Mary Jane Dillard, was born October 7th, 1843. 

September eighth. The Baptists are in arms against me and 
have been inventing some horrid lies. They say that I ridiculed 
their immersion, called it a circus and had Mrs. Martin's fan 
shook in my face while at the pool and received a challenge after- 
wards from said lady to duelling controversially. Of course all 
is false. Yet it seems that Jacobs has multitudinous enemies 
and must pay the penalty of imprudence. 

September fifteenth. The Lord has certainly been with me 
and that in a marvelous manner. We have just held our pro- 
tracted meeting at Clinton and forty souls have been added to 
the church. Besides this there are yet between twenty and 
thirty inquiring the way of salvation, some of whom I doubt 
not will be added to us. Oh, how grateful I am to the prayer 
hearing God. See how he answers prayer. I prayed before the 
meeting just this way and in these words "Oh Lord, add three 
souls to my church- Father be merciful, give me ten. Oh, 
Lord! Thou art able to do a great thing as easily as a small. I 
pray for forty. Oh, God, in Thy great mercy add forty souls 
to this church." and the Lord answered my prayer to the letter 
— the first day three were added, the second day, I had ten and 
before the meeting closed, we received precisely forty not one 
less or more. Ls not this a remarkable answer to prayer? Surely 
I need never doubt again. 

Some of those we received were very valuable members, Mrs. 
Compton, Mrs. Joe Vance, Mrs. I^ngston, Mrs. Rooke, Mrs.Ludy 
Little, Mrs. McKelvy. This is the greatest revival that ever has 



AGE TWENTY-ONE— 1864 115 

occurred in Clinton. I trust that God has been truly on our side 
and that to bless us. 

September txcenty-third. At our meeting I met M — . Riley 
gives a very fine account of her and a most excellent recommenda- 
tion. He thinks I will succeed if I try. Still my prayer is "Deus 
Dirigit." Oh ! I want so much to be a true, noble minded Chris- 
tian. I am a theoretical Christian. I want to be practical. My love 
and faith are worse than weak and yet I do love and do believe. 

I have just returned (October 4th) from the meeting of 
Presbytery at Cross Hill — Liberty Springs Church. I took my 
seat in Presbytery for the first time but was of no manner of 
consequence, save that I acted as clerk for the space of half 
hour. 

Got a present of fifty testaments from Dr. Woodrow. Tues- 
day started for Clinton, found the Laurens train at Newberry 
also Mr. Butter's buggy — chose the later. Butter started to 
go the 23 miles at the same time. Our buggy beat by one half 
an hour. Here I am once more in Clinton resting after my 
glorious fatigue. 

Tuesday I went up to see Miss Mary D. but was sadly disap- 
pointed. The day before she had been thrown from a buggy and 
her shoulder injured. She was consequently unable to see com- 
pany. 

November tenth. I married my first couple tonight. Dr. 
Craig to Lizzie Owens. I got through the ceremony far better 
than I expected for which dei gratias. Dr. Craig was pleased 
— first fee $50.00. No wife to give it to. Everybody says that 
Mary D- is just the girl. Methinks I will go to see her again. 
Understand that the broken neck is better. Everybody has 
found me out. Evidently I must do something. Tonight I be- 
came really proud of little Clinton. It has done considerably 
better than I thought. The girls looked prettier than I thought 
they could. The elite of the town were out. Mem : try to elevate 
the manners of the elite. Supper good and in good taste, re- 
minded me of ante-war suppers, save in the matter of silver. 
No great display. But these things are trifles beneath the notice 
of great minds. Nevertheless straws show which way the wind 
blows. 

November eighteenth. I ordained an elder for the first time 
today. 

Sherman has burnt Atlanta, etc. etc. and is pressing into 
the heart of Georgia, point of destination probably Savannah. 



116 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I was foiled in another attempt to visit Mary D. I fear that 
I will have to give it up. No! Never! Last evening (November 
twenty- fourth) the choir assembled as usual in Mr. Phinney's 
parlor. There were at least thirty out and the singing was good. 
Have succeded in borrowing a melodeon from Rush Blakely for 
the use of the church. I have also succeeded in getting up a sub- 
scription to get fifty copies of the child's paper for the Sabbath 
School. The Southern Presbyterian is also now taken by thirty 
families in my congregation. 

Last Sunday I preached what was styled a raking sermon 
on Family Religion. There is much talk of it. It pleased and 
yet I was afraid that I would excite passion: which demon- 
strates that people like to hear faults mentioned provided that 
you don't harness the faults on them. Monday, I paid a trip to 
Laurens. Poor Ripley started this day for the war. I must pray 
for him with all my might. I was foiled in yet another trip 
to see Mary D. What shall I do? Succumb? No, Never! Wed- 
nesday (November 30th) I spent at Mrs. McDowell's. I like her 
family as well as any in my congregation. 

I have at last succeded in drafting an accurate map of the 
city of Clinton. Its public improvements : a railroad, school, 
two churches, two blacksmith shops, a bar-room (!) steam mill, 
cigar manufacturing, etc. There used to be very many other 
public improvements here but ever since I have been here many 
of them have stopped. The war is playing havoc with Clinton. 
I trust, however, that the return of peace will also bring a re- 
turn of improvements. 

I went to see her whom Strallon calls "My Mary." Three 
long hours were spent in her society alone, beside several odd 
quarters. Sallie is a lovely girl **Her bright smile haunts me 
still". Of course, though, I love "My Mary" best. Several favor- 
able indications but nothing definite as yet. Holmes says "Try." 
Riley says "Try." Mrs. H. says "Try." Mrs. Phinney says 
*Try." My own heart beats out "Try! Try! Whatever you do 
— Try." Suppose I do. I saw a pretty picture there that I 
wanted to steal so badly but I could not summon resolution! I 
am still on the fence. The Lord guide me and if so be it his will, 
prosper me in this matter. I can do nothing without his "Yea!" 

Er'e I close my journal my glib pen would linge a little 
about the close of this year, while rapidly it surveys the past. 
What has the year been occupied in? Well, then, turning to 
my book I find that I have changed my Presbyterial member- 
ship, have been ordained over Clinton and Shady Grove, and 
Duncan's Creek, have had my first marriage, baptism, ordina- 



AGE TWENTY-ONE— 1864 117 

tion, and communion services, have scribbled a little for news- 
papers, have paid over 250 pastoral visits, preached one hundred 
fifty sermons, etc., traveled over two thousand miles for the cause 
of Christ, written fifty sermons, conversed one hundred fifty 
times with inquirers, received nearly one hundred members into 
the church, baptised eighty adults and twenty-two children, 
preached four funerals, celebrated two marriages, collected $2, 

000 for religious purposes, organized and conducted a pros- 
perous Sabbath School, been instrumental in organizing • Clin- 
ton Soldiers Relief Association, distributed about fifty testa- 
ments to soldiers, taken my seat in Presbytery and Synod, have 
read about one hundred books, etc. My personal property has 
been slightly increased but that is a minor matter. And may 

1 not here mention "My Mary" No! wait a little. This much 
has God helped me to do. Oh! thanks, thanks, but what for the 
future? P^ather, remember thy promises and make the years 
to come even more abundant in labours and improvement. Oh, 
grant that I may have spent this vear "looking unto Jesus.*' 

Thus endeth 1864. 



CHAPTER SEVEN 

1865— Age 22 

January eighth. On yesterday evening as preparatory to 
our approaching communion, I summoned all the children to the 
church had 30 or 40 there and catechised them on the Shorter 
Catechism. They did their teachers credit. I do love the little 
children. Indeed I think that they are getting very much attach- 
ed to me. Clinton Church held (January 8th) today its first 
winter communion. Brother Riley was with me. I baptised 
three children and received three negroes in the church. Oh, 
God, bless this church. Congregation very large. Colored peo- 
ple very attentive and fill the church. About sixty to seventy 
white and one hundred forty negroes communed. Riley agrees 
with me in toto, in my admiration of My Mary. I go thither I 
trust on Friday and then? Hey! 

Friday, January thirteenth has passed. Early on that day 
I escaped from Clinton and went through roads innumerable to 
"Coldwater." I met her whom I call "Mary". We talked long. 
Oh ! I know not what to write, for first the golden bow of hope and 
then the black thunder-colored alternate rise. I confess that 
suspense is dreadful. But, thank God, I have confided the whole 
affair into the keeping of Him that is higher than I and I will 
abide by his decision. If my hopes are blasted then Jacobs, I 
pity you. If realized — I know not whether to say that I hope 
most or despair most. God guide and help me if it be thy holy 
will. 

My journal makes entirely too many revelations. It is a 
regular history of all my love-scrapes. Suppose Mary says "No" 
when I ask her? Off, thought! I cannot endure you. I have had 
chicken-love a plenty in days bygone but this is the first time in 
my life that I have ever fallen a victim to manly love. What a 
strange emotion is this? Was Shakespeare right when he said 
that "men have died and worms have eaten them but not for 
love?" I never loved any girl in my life as I love Mary Dillard. 
Indeed I never before knew what love was. Mary is everything 
that I could wish, in health, form, features, behavior, name, fami- 
ly, domesticity, etc. There is absolutely nothing more that I de- 
sire. In piety, education, manners, etc. she satisfies me entirely. 

118 



AGE TWENTY-TWO— 1865 119 

Indeed she comes nearer my ideal of the girl I want than any 1 
ever met with before. My love for her now is held in abeyance, 
because I know not whether it is returned but if she gives me 
the word of welcome, then, Mary Dillard you will have one 
heart to love you better than you were ever loved before. 

Ever memorable be the 26th of January 1865 when I could 
write as Caesar to the Roman Senate "Veni, Vidi, Vici!" In 
the words of the Revolutionary hero "We have met the enemy 
and they are ours." On! Selim! On! With rapidity I traveled 
over the intervening ten miles and to my delight and joy found 
her whose picture now lies before me "at home." Nor was it 
long ere my own dear Mary came forward to greet me. On ! On ! 
w^e talked till the hour of noon was struck and the evening sha- 
dows fled across the land. On common subjects we conversed 
until five thirty P. M. when, draw the curtain over the scene that 
followed. Sufficient be it for inquisitive ears that Miss Mary is 
henceforth "My Mary." Need I also write of the meeting a sec- 
ond enemy in the morning, over whom I gained another victory. 
God has thus blessed me more than I could have hoped. He has 
gratified mv most earnest wishes. Indeed I feel that he has made 
the w^hole thing to come out just as it has. I trust him, I love 
him the more for it. And then, Mary! She is so good, so every- 
thing that I want. My greatest wonder is that she ever did say 
"Yes". But she did and I believe that she will stick to her prom- 
ise. Oh, God, consummate this union and pour out thy blessing 
upon it. 

Strange to say I have not the faintest conception of what I 
said except this single sentence: "Miss Mary, I love you very 
much." On Saturday I w^ent to Laurensville and preached a 
very poor sermon. Father and Mother were informed in regard 
to my engagement and I am glad to say approve of it. The glo- 
rious tidings came today of possible peace. It is announced that 
England and France and Mexico have agreed to recognize the 
Confederacy, that Lincoln is treating for peace, an armistice of 
thirty days declared. The almighty Father grant that it may be 
'30. Oh, what joy, if peace is declared. But I forbear the thought 
lest I be disappointed. Heavenly Father, give us peace. 

One day excites our hopes. The next dispels them. Yester- 
day's rumours have brought bitter disppointments today. 

February second. My last visit was equally satisfactory 
with the previous. I found Mary at Mrs. P's. My feelings are 
now completely in her power. She knows me and Oh, what a 
noble girl she is! She is Solomon's "prudent woman," par excel- 
lence. I returned home to find Lou Foster in a dying condition. 



120 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

God grant that she may live. If she dies, she will be the first of 
my converts to go heavenward. 

I received a delightful note this morning (February 24th) 
full of love from one that is dearer to me than all others, and a 
few hours afterwards was urging my way through the rain to 
Coldwater and had to pass through cold water to get there for 
Duncan's Creek was flooded. When I reached Mary's home, she 
soon came down to meet me, but her flushed face and beating 
pulse told me that she was not well. Nor was she and yet in spite 
of all, she resolutely refused my urgent request to retire. Her 
love for me conquered even her sickness. The next morning 
she was no better and yet she refused to do what I asked. Oh, 
Mary, Mary, how often I have told you that my love exceeded 
yours, and yet I know that your love is intense and devoted, I 
sometimes think far surpassing mine. Sallie said to Mary a few 
days ago "Mary, if I were in Willie's company as much as you are 
I would love him more than you do." She could not for I verily 
believe that Mary loves me with all her whole heart. I am deep- 
ly anxious in regard to her. I fear that she may be sick for a 
long time and I unable to see her. I pray most earnestly that 
this be not the case but I dread it. My God, keep me from more 
harassing thoughts than these. Mrs. D. says she has exerted 
herself lately making up thread for a new dress. Mrs. Phinney 
thinks "the wedding's at hand". To show you how reports 
spread, dear Journal, consider this: Sometime ago, Mrs. Dil- 
lard sent to Jno. Blakely's to have five trays made. The servant 
added "and make them soon for the young Missus and Mr. Ja- 
cobs are going to get married." A darkey brought said report 
to Ed McCreery's and so to Lizzie Craig and so to Clinton. "The 
plot thickens." I left Mary at four P. M. on Saturday. I would 
have waited till Sabbath but saw that my stay was injuring her. 
The rain was descending in torrents, and the wind was blowing. I 
reached Rocky Spring at sundown and I was four miles from 
Clinton, the clouds, rain etc. had darkened the night so rapidly 
that I could not see even the horse I rode on. It was a novel sen- 
sation, trusting entirely to the instinct of the brute going one 
knew not how fast or whither. My thoughts were all of Mary. 

On Tuesday afternoon at four P. M. I was on my way to 
Laurens. All were delighted to see me. A pleasant talk with 
Kate, father, mother, Fisher and Brother Holmes. The latter 
brought me news of Mary. She is very sick. Frank met me in 
the evening. I wrote out to my Mary by him. Further questiongs 
so excited my fears that I felt urged to go and inquire for myself. 
I could not see her but left her better bearing a note from myself 
as a souvenir. We kept up quite a correspondence. I have tried to 



AGE TWENTY-TWO— 1865 121 

get the dear girl to fix on the 6th of April. Will she? Oh, God, 
grant her a speedy recovery. My soul almost idolizes her. Heav- 
en forefend me from idolatry. Mary, I know loves me with all 
the fulness of a woman's love. Noble girl! It would almo.st 
ruin me; it would kill me to lose her. The news from Columbia 
is that it is burnt, at least 1260 houses. The Seminary and the 
Presbyterian Church, thank God, were spared. Alas, for Carolina! 
The city is starving. I have at last prevailed on Clinton to send 
provisions to Columbia. 

Last evening again with Mary. She is improving slowly. 
She is now able to sit up in bed. I was permitted to have a long 
talk with her last night. We discussed the 6th but finally settled 
on the 20th. And so in six weeks more I will be among the hap- 
piest of men. Deo volente et favente. I have approached this 
point with much and anxious prayer and know that the smiles of 
heaven are with me in it. Instead of becoming accustomed to 
"love" I find that every day increases my affection for my dar- 
ling Mary. Oh, God, thanks for much happiness. Increase it, 
Father. 

On the morning of the 13th I completed my preparations and 
evening found me with Mary. Every day increases my admir- 
ation of her character. She is a noble girl and just the ideal that 
I have long cherished. Oh, how unspeakably thankful I am that 
Mary and not C — proved to be my allotted one. God was 
good to me. Something has turned up that has shown me beyond 
a doubt that I was saved by the merciful hand of a kind and 
heavenly father. Mary was nearly well and looking as good as 
ever. She loves me devotedly. Nor is there anything gross or 
sensual about her love. It is pure. She loves me for myself only. 
We are arranging for the 20th of April. I will bring her home 
to Mr. Phinney's and perhaps will afterward make arrange- 
ments to go to housekeeping. I will consult with her. Mary's 
character grows on me every day. It is so pure, so Christian, 
so prudent and .vet withal so defined — certain — determinate. I 
know that we will live happily together. When I am with her 
I am ever wishing myself there. When I am away, I feel lost. 
Thanks heavenly Father, for this precious treasure! 

Tonight I am to be married. I can hardly express the feeling 
with which I enter this holy relation. The times are unpropit- 
ious but that deters me not a moment. I am only too thankful 
that I am blessed with the gift of a true, open hearted, virtuous 
woman's love. I do not deserve the gift but God who has given 
her to me will, I trust, make me worthy of her. I have prayed 
his blessing most fervently upon this union. I pray for it, again 



122 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and ever. I would have his love to be the chief link between us, 
so that heaven shall be evermore desirable. When I think of 
Mary's love, of her sacrifice of herself, of her gentle woman's 
nature, of her Christian deportment, of her prudence, her modest 
worth, I feel unfailingly thankful to God for his unspeakable 
goodness to me. I pray for Christ's sake that I may never once 
give expression either to a word or look that may cause her to 
regret her choice. I will be kind to Mary. She shall have, nay 
she has now, my full and hearty love. I will think more of her 
than of father, mother or sister, more than of all others besides. 
No earthly object shall be superior or is now in my affections to 
her. It may be that God shall not allot to us a life of sorrow and 
of pain. If hers be the lot to suffer, God give me the power to 
be to her kind, sympathetic and affectionate. If mine, I know the 
tender care will bestowed upon me. I am going to Laurensville 
this morning with Brother John Arbuthnot. He attends me to 
the hanging. This evening, to Coldwater! 

I have been married a week and a week of such happiness 
it has never been my lot before to enjoy. I feel like Brother W. **I 
wish I had been born married." It was on the night of the 20th 
of April, the night that we received official intelligence of General 
Lee's capture that Mary and I united our lots for life. Father 
performed the ceremony. Arbuthnot, Todd, Jim Sloan and John 
were my attendants. Sallie, Mag Pitts, Lucy Byrd and Annie 
were hers. I must confess that I was a little worried but both of 
us went up to the stake like heroes and now Mary belongs to me 
and I belong to her. The next day we spent with Mary's mother. 

Saturday, we were in Clinton — Sunday T preached for me. 

Tuesday we went to Laurens, receiving many visitors. All the 
week has been spent by others in a high state of political anxiety. 
An armistice has been agreed upon, nobody knows for what. The 
army is disbanding, Lincoln and Seward have both been assassi- 
nated and peace is being discussed. God grant that it may come. 
The war, however, has not been the principal theme of my 
thoughts. Mary and I are trving to make arrangements to go to 
housekeeping and I am hoping to secure Wm. B. Bell's house 
in this place. It is rather small but is much better than none. 
Mary is a gem of a girl. My love for her ought of course daily 
to increase but also does my admiration for her character. I 
think she will make a model "preacher's wife." Surely God is 
good to me. Every day I thank him for his gift. I hope to be- 
come worthy of her, though now very unworthy. She is my wife. I 
will be kind and gentle to her. Woman's sufferings are many 
and her trials great. I ought to remember this constantly and 
try, therefore, to be kind, affectionate and sympathetic. She 



AGE TWENTY-TWO— 1865 123 

is my wife and I will give her my love and confidence. I know 
that my interests will be very dear to her and that she would be 
careful not to injure me even by a word. 

The war, it is said, is virtually over and the south restored 
to the union. I am dumb. It is God's doings and we richly de- 
serve what his hand has placed upon us. Henceforth we are no 
longer freemen, we are at the mercy of our Yankee lords and 
masters. God help us. 

On returning sick and weary to Clinton I found that the Yank- 
ees had been to Laurens C. H. ; stole principally horses and watch- 
es. I was very anxious about Mary. She was up at her mother's. 
I expected her to come on Tuesday but she not arriving, I went up 
to Mrs. Dillard's and stayed there till Monday, paid a visit to 
Sallie and another to Eliza. On our way to Eliza's we drove 
right into a squad of Yankees. They were very polite, bearing 
a flag of truce on their way from Stonemaw to Vaughn. On re- 
turning to Clinton I found Arbuthnot here. George Porter also 
paid me a visit and I found their company really delightful. I 
am once more settled down to studies but not very effectually as 
yet. I am all the while busying my thoughts about her whom I 
love, thinking of and talking to her. We have at last determined 
to begin life seriously and today finds me at my books. I have 
some little work this week but nothing to brag about. I find in 
Mary, not only all but more than my fancy painted her. I do not 
think that I could have made a better selection anywhere. I am, 
I confess, desperately in love with her. 

We have at last succeeded in renting the Bell house. It is 
very much out of repair but I am every day engaged in having it 
a little improved. This page is written in it. Mary has gone 
home to superintend the removal of her eflfects. By the end of 
the week, the house will have its inhabitants. My study is the on- 
ly part of the house that is at all arranged. My books have been 
brought round and I feel at home in it already. God grant his 
heavenly blessing on our abode here and make this a holy place 
unto himself. Ours must be in the strictest sense of the term, 
a happy Christian family. I will be content with nothing less. Oh, 
God, receive this dedication unto thee and make thy name illus- 
trious here. Bless our home and let sincerest love through all 
our lives and actions manifest itself. 

May t IV enty -seventh. Four months ago I was made one of 
the happiest of men by the affirmative reply to a question. To- 
day, my dear, dear Mary is seated near me, busily engaged in 
my study, at the parsonage. We have begun to keep house. 
Mary's part of the work is being admirably done. I wish I could 



124 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

say as much for myself. I have a noble house-keeper of whom 
Solomon admirably wrote 'The heart of her husband doth safely 
trust in her". I used to be told that married people got along 
easier than those who are single. I believe it "to be about to be" 
verified in my case for I never felt so well satisfied as I do at 
the present. I believe that I will at once become more manly, 
more respected, will be looked upon as a citizen and will so in- 
crease my usefulness. At any rate I feel happier and more satis- 
fied. 

I want my family to be an exemplary one and I will try in 
every way to make it such a model for Christianity — morality 
— punctuality — regularity — industry, etc. Mary is of the same 
opinion and of course it depends upon us, whether it shall be so 
or not. She is a jewel of a wife. I wonder how I ever succeeded 
in entrapping her. She sees to everything herself and in her 
domestic arrangements is a pattern of order and cleanliness. 
What two greater qualifications could be desired? I sit here and 
look at her sweet face and industrious fingers and thank God for 
such a treasure. It is sweet, a delightful thing to be blessed 
with such a partner for life. The blessings of heaven rest upon 
thee, Mary. 

We are at last settled. Home is the sweetest place on earth. 
I would rather be there* than anywhere else and with Mary than 
with anybody else. I feel now like a Pastor. My people are 
very kind and good to me and I feel already more attached to 
them. I hope that in the providence of God, I may be enabled to 
stay here all my life, if the people and place improve and it still 
appears that I may be useful. The state of the country is very 
discouraging but with heart within and God overhead I hope still 
for kinder days and sunnier skies. Mary makes my home happy 
for me. She is a good, good wife, better than I ever expected to 
get, far better than I ever deserved. We have been visiting to- 
gether some and I indeed appreciate her company and society. I 
love her company and feel happy only when I know that she is 
near. 

I intend hereafter preaching regularly every first and third 
Sabbath afternoons at Clinton until the days shorten and then 
I will preach at night when the moon gives light. Since my 
marriage and settlement I have become a great deal more inter- 
ested in my charge. 

My days are rapidly advancing. They fly before I think them 
near. The months are winged. The weeks are shorter than the 
days were formerly. Why is this? Why — happiness and busi- 
ness make the days and weeks and months roll rapidly by. I 



AGE TWENTY-TWO— 1865 125 

make an appointment far in the future and before I know it 
I am fulfilling it. Thus are minutes winged instead of leaden 
and doubly; Mary and Duty are the prime causes. 

Clinton is reviving. The war has, thank God, ceased. 1 
have become reconciled to the change, have taken the oath and 
intend striving to do my duty as a faithful citizen of the United 
States. The stores are opening rapidly. We will soon be again 
busily immersed in speculation. 

Clinton is improving. It has now the following public build- 
ings, etc.: 

Stores — Drygoods — Phinney and West, Hayne Williams, 
Huett. 

Groceries — Copeland and Bearden — Wm. Rose. 

Assorted — Craig and Tobin — Mess Bailey. 

Buggy Factory — W. D. Johnson. 

Wagon Factory — Robert Huett. 

Harness Factory — Richard Huett. 

Blacksmithies — Johnson, Huett, Young's. 

Carpenter Shops — George Davidson. 

Steam, Saw, Grist and Flour Mill — Joseph Crews. 

Shoe-shops — D. T. Compton, George Simpson — (Col) Nel- 
son Todd. 

Schools — Male School — Rev. Theo Hunter. 
Female School — Mrs. R. Dunlap. 

Churches — Presbyterian — Methodist. 

Hotel— Joel T. Foster. 

Masonic Lodge — No. 44. 

Physicians: Dr. Tom Harris — Dr. W. H. Henry, Dr. Richard 
Dunlap. 

Millinery — Mrs. Burgess, Mrs. Huett. 

Tailoring — Mr. Butler. 

Not to mention a Railroad which unfortunately is not in run- 
ning operation. 

The negroes, though free, are still behaving tolerably well 
about here. They attend church and behave pretty well. The 
year has ended ! And what a year it has been to me ! It has brought 
change. My marriage — what a word — a world of happiness. 



CHAPTER EIGHT 

1866— Age 23 



February at its high-noon and nothing written in my journal 
yet. Nor is there yet much to write ; for a week I spent in moving 
and three weeks in bed and three weeks more in making myself 
comfortable in my new habitation. My plans for this year are 
first to preach, second to teach Phonography, third to farm on a 
small scale and fourth to attempt a small Printing Office in Clin- 
ton. For the community I propose, first the improvement and 
endowment of the Clinton Male Academy, second a public library. 
For the Church, first, an improved scheme of benevolence, second 
the Presbyterian in every family, third the erection of a colored 
church. For my wife, first, love, second, comfort. Father has 
moved to Washington to take charge of a Female Seminary. 

I have become an editor, on May second I began the True 
Witness — four months it has been in existence, it has done some 
good, it has enlarged Public Spirit — it is making me more ubiqui- 
tious — but it has not paid me well. I have helped along the Clin- 
ton Male Academy. Bro. Hunter came, took charge of it, failed, 
still the building was improved and his failure resulted in the 
firmer establishment of the Academy. I am Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees. We are trying to build a colored church. 
We take up a semi-monthly collection. Collected only $13.25. We 
are trying to pale in the church. All the stock is not yet sub- 
scribed. Perhaps we will get it. I have got the ''Ladies Benev- 
olent Association" on foot again. They speak of me as President. 
I have been offered A. M. by Charleston College. I think of go- 
ing to get it. God has blessed my family. On April 11th, a dear 
little cherub was added to our fold. God bless our little "Florence 
Lee." Her grandparents (mine) have never seen her. She is 
pretty and good. 

My churches have passed through a trying ordeal ; the clouds 
are black and heavy. Oh, Saviour steer us safely through the 
storm. Clinton is an incorporated town once more. Jas. A. Dean 
Intendant. The council is doing good. Our railroad is reviving. 
For six months it has been utterly dead, but daily do we now 
behold the locomotive's welcome view. Not in the Union — Negro 
riots — poor crops, War in Europe, Atlantic Cable, these are the 

126 



AGE TWENTY-THREE— 1866 127 

most important world items. The cholera, trichina and rinder- 
pest. 

October ninth. A month of incidents has just elapsed, dur- 
ing which we held a communion meeting at Clinton. God be 
praised for His goodness in allowing us to receive to communion, 
thirty whites and colored. The whole town was stirred up and 
never before was witnessed such manifestations of His mercy. 
Immediately after the close of the meeting Mary, the baby and 
self started on an overland trip to Washington, Ga., to see father. 

I have established a Printing Office in Clinton and am edi- 
tor of a miserable little sheet called the True Witness. I have 
published a little catechism and also a little song-book for my 
Sunday School. This little paper I have originated just to do 
Clinton good and for no other purpose. I have got Ripley over 
here and he is associated with me. 

On my return from Washington, I found the people exceed- 
ingly anxious to recommence the protracted meeting. We did so, 
and Oh, the wonders of God's grace! Forty more have professed 
conversion ! and of these many gray-haired men. It was truly 
affecting. And then on Thursday night all of the new converts 
sat down at the Lord's table. Heaven came down to earth and 
dwelt among us. I failed to go to Synod this year, cause, without 
the means. Thus God has brought me to the end of 1866. 

1867— Age 24 

March. I received the degree of A. M. From my Alma Mater, 
the College of Charletson. 

April. Presbytery met in my church. Mr. Price was mod- 
erator. We had a delightful time. In many things, I was kindly 
treated by my brethren of the Presbytery far more than I de- 
serve. 

May. I have determined to change the True Witness into 
an agricultural paper. 

June. My little farm of 10 acres is progressing finely. My 
garden is said to be the best in Clinton. 

July. The Farm and Garden is received very favorably. 

August. Sick nearly all the month. 

October. Synod met at Laurens. All my old associates there; 
Law, Boggs, Mack and the professors of the Seminary. . 



128 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



November. 



Decembei'. A death and a marriage. Sallie was married by 
myself to Bob Richardson and dear mother, Mary's mother, whom 
I loved next to my own sainted mother, passed away from this life 
unto eternal life. 

1868— Age 25 

March. The world politically is turned upside down. I 
would like to leave America, if possible. Received a call to Al- 
bany, Ga. After some hesitation declined. I cannot leave my 
people. 

April. Attended Presbytery at Greenwood, meeting with 
much kind treatment from several of the citizens. Greenwood is 
a handsome little town of seven hundred inhabitants. 

July. I have undertaken a great job for such a little body, 
no less than the erection of a house on a lot that I bought, from 
Darling Henry. Captain Jones doubled the size of my lot by giv- 
ing me two acres back of it. I hope when my house is built to be 
able to live more comfortably than now. 

1869— Age 26 

I write from home — my own home — the home of my dear 
wife and children — for God has blessed me with another child — 
little Eugene Ferdinand, now four months old. I write from home, 
for I have built a house, have dedicated it to God and here I am 
in my study, surrounded with books and papers. Ought I not to 
be contented and happy? My family is full — father and mother 
— son and daughter — Ripley and Minnie. Yes little Sissie, now a 
young lady of nineteen is with me and will probably stay all the 
year. I have just (February 9th) brought her from Columbia, 
where I spent an exceedingly pleasant day in Dr. Adger's house. 
I shall visit Dr. Plumer and Dr. Woodrow. I have also George 
May — my little farmer and Sallie Dillard, my little help and com- 
panion. God help me to be just to them. 

The Farm and Garden has entered upon its fourth volume 
— prosperously. I am becoming encouraged about it and am deter- 
mined to give it a high stand if I can. My churches — Clinton 
Church has recently been beautifully fitted up — new pews, cur- 
tains, lamps, carpet. It is as neat as a pin. I still preach at 
Bethany and Shady Grove, but my principal labor is in Clinton. 
Prayer meeting every Thursday evening. Preaching every Sab- 



AGE TWENTY-THREE— 1865 129 

bath night. Session meeting once a month. Preaching and Sab- 
bath School and Bible Class every second and fourth Sabbath. I 
am about to begin preaching to the negroes once a month in the 
afternoon. 

May twenty-fourth. I have been hard at work at Clinton 
now for over five years and have become greatly encouraged. 
Our S. S. Anniversary on the 8th was a great success — We gave 
prizes to 35 children for attendance, two for bringing in over 12 
scholars (one of them to little Lillie Harris who was killed by a 
tree. She was of a Methodist family but I preached her funeral) 
and six for repeating the shorter Catechism. The school has over 
a hundred scholars. The teachers presented me with a silver 
cup. 

Ju7ie twenty-sixth. I have just returned from Morning ser- 
vice where I conducted a flourishing school of one hundred. Oh! 
it is a beautiful sight and these dear children how precious they 
are to my soul ! I count no labor too much to do in their behalf. 

August seventeenth. The little town of Clinton is improving 
rapidly. In social life, there has been a great change for the bet- 
ter. There has been less dancing (though some) and more ration- 
al enjoyment than has been ours since Clinton was founded. In 
building there has been much improvement. My house was the 
first built, then Mess Bailey's and Bill Johnson's, then the im- 
provements in the church, then Mr. Phinney's house and bridge, 
now Charlie Franklin is putting up a dwelling — R. Blakely is about 
fitting up a rough old store, so as to make it entirely new and Mrs. 
Green speaks of putting up a dwelling and tannery. My church, 
moreover, thinks of engaging me, next year, for all my time. 

September first. My church has at last raised the salary and 
next year will engage my whole services. I thank God for this. 
It will have a good effect I hope, upon my studies making me a 
better minister. It certainly is a great encouragement, as it is 
an evident sign of progress in my church. The Methodists at 
Clinton are enjoying quite a revival. God bless and help them. 
Ripley left today for Davidson College. He is preparing for the 
ministry, the only candidate that this church has ever sent forth. 

October ticenty-sixth. I received a message today from Mr. 
Bailey, asking me to come to see him. Mrs. Bailey w^as very ill. 
He took me one side and asked me if I would receive them* into the 



130 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

church. I consented and then upon her bed of sickness I baptized 
Mrs. Bailey. I also baptized Mr. Bailey and his whole house. 
This is the first time I ever received one thus and I believe it is the 
first time that I ever baptized a whole family. Father, Mother, 
and three children at once. 

December fifteenth. I preached my last sermon at Shady' 
Grove church today. Henceforth I devote my time entirely ta 
the Clinton church. For this I have long prayed and God has at 
last granted my petition. May he now make me a faithful pastor, 
with this thought ever before me, to serve him supremely. 

I have been laboring lately to organize a Clinton Library As- 
sociation. I want it to begin operations as soon as we can raise 
ten subscribers. My endeavors shall be to make Clinton a good 
and interesting place. 

On reviewing mentally the past year I found that I had ac- 
complished nothing but on looking to my notes, I find that I have 
paid more pastoral visits, delivered more sermons, prepared more 
sermons, collected more money and married more couples than in 
any previous year in my ministry. 

1870— Age 27 

I have been lately very busy in my study and am more devoted 
than ever to these precious companions of mine, these silent 
friends that never refuse when I ask their counsel or instruction. 

I am gratified with the improved condition of our Sunday 
School. It is the church. I accomplish as much by it as by the 
sanctuary. Lord, Jesus, let thy showers fall on it also. I think 
our negro church will be built this fall. We have bought a lot 
just out of the town and hope to build this fall. When I get it 
through my next effort shall be a church library, or at any rate, a 
library association for Clinton. And after I get it under way I 
think we can build up the "Clinton Presbyterian Academy!" 

I find myself improving rapidly in the languages since I began 
paying more particular attention to them, a month ago. My de- 
termination is to read through every Latin and Greek Classic on 
which I can lay my hands. Harper's Grammar and Latin texts 
are the ones I intend using. I desire them as full of notes as 
possible. 



AGE TWENTY-THREE— 1865 131 

June thirtieth. During the past thirty days my studies have 
been Greek Testament, Matt. 6, Luke 18. 

English Version, Josh 11 — 2 Kings 8 

Hebreiv 2, Sam 21 — 1 Kings 16 

Chaldee, Dan 7 :7— 28 Ezra 4-6 

Latin, Cicero de Officiis, Libri 2 and 3 1-13 

Syria c 1, 2 and S John 

German, Adler's Lesebuch 10 pp. and Psalms, Spitta 

200 pp. 
French, 12 and 14 chapters in Bible. 

Have read also a little in Herodotus (301-15) Have read most 
of the Episcopal Prayer Book, John's Gospel, Life of Dr J. A. Al- 
exander Vol. 2, Lambe on Diet (200) Graham's Synopsis of Phono- 
graphy, Debates in General Assemblies, "Vashti" by Augusta J. 
Evans, Book 3, Young's Christ in History, Ellis' researches in 
Madagascar, besides a good many magazines, papers and scraps 
of books. Sic for canis Latin and katse-German. 

July first. Yesterday after prayermeeting I succeeded in 
inducing the ladies to organize a "Sewing Society" for the be- 
nevolent operations of the church. May God grant it prosperity 
and success. Mrs. S. A. Phinney, president. Mrs. Mary Jacobs, 
secretary. Mrs. J. T. Craig, treasurer. 

July ninth. Dear Lord, grant I implore thee, that my wages 
may be paid this month. I deserve not a cent. Most unprofitable 
servant have I been but I entreat, give me souls for my hire. 
My heart is gone after those unconverted in yearning and plead- 
ing. Lord save them and give them as jewels to thy Son, Jesus, 
Amen. 

July twenty-eighth. Oh, Lord, thou hast paid me immensely 
more than I deserve, for I deserve nothing. Oh, grant me yet 
more than this for I am hungry for souls. Father I prayed for 
ten with earnest peradventure and thou hast given me six. 
Where are the other four? 

August seventh. I have just returned from a three days 
preaching expedition at Shady Grove. We received four mem- 
bers. 

August twentieth. Last night we witnessed a beautiful ex- 



132 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

hibition of the Aurora Borealis. It was displayed in parallel 
streaks of light, sometimes quite brilliant and exactly perpen- 
dicular to the horizon. These streaks were very variable, some- 
times very bright, then suddenly fading away altogether. The 
display lasted about half an hour. The streaks reached even to 
the polar star and covered some fifty or seventy-five degrees along 
the horizon. This is the third display I have ever witnessed and 
by far the finest of them all. How wonderful are God's works. 
The heavens declare his glory, and the firmament showeth his 
handiwork. At the Ball night before last, no member of the 
church, save children of an elder in the Clinton Church, danced. 

August twenty-second. I see by the Presbyterian that Father 
has received the title of D. D. I am glad. Saturday night we 
had another beautiful display of the Aurora. None last night. 

I hear my little Florence singing all over the yard "Jesus 
Christ save me." Oh Savior, she understands not her prayer, 
but I pray thee, hear it. 

August tiventy-eighth. Lord Jesus, thou art a prayer-hear- 
ing God. But alas, I am weak in my faith. Thou art more ready 
to hear than I to ask. One month ago I plead with thee for the 
balance of my hire. I only asked for ten souls. Lord, today thou 
hast paid the uttermost farthing. Dear Lord, dare I ask more? 
Only five — dear Savior — canst thou not spare me this many ere 
this year is ended? Dear Savior, it is much to ask, yet giving 
will not make thee the poorer. Lord, I wait on thee, thou answerer 
of prayer. 

September third. Poor little Clinton! What is to be done 
for her. We are distressed and harassed on every side. The 
present political disturbance is greatly against us. I wish that 
we had peace. Can I do nothing for the advancement of Clinton? 
I think I will succeed in getting the mission chapel built this 
month. My next determination is to put up a Library building 
and organize a Library Society if I can get room to stand on and 
then, Ho, for a good school. God grant it. What we need is 
more public spirited men and I am not half enough so. 

Every man must live for something. I have hardly any plan 
before me in life. Is not this the cause of my disquiet and unrest? 
Oh, my soul, what means this sadness? 

AugiiM nineteenth. These are stormy times, wherein we 
dwell. Last night after the sweet pleasures of the Holy Sabbath 
we were startled bv rumors of an attack on Clinton bv the nejrroes, 
200 of whom had gathered at the mill, entered Joe Crew's ar- 



AGE TWENTY-THREE— 1865 133 

mory and armed themselves. The whites assembled at West's 
store to the number of 75 and having armed themselves, awaited 
the attack. The poor women were scared half to death and many 
of them assembled at Mrs. Phinney's for protection. By God's 
good providence a collision has been thus far averted. But the 
races are in a highly excited state and I fear that evil will yet re- 
sult from it. 

August twenty- first. We have had a time of it. The whole 
cause of the fracas was the collision of a party of white and col- 
ored men near Clinton on Saturday night. The negroe-; fired on 
the white men. Their fire was returned and four were wounded. 
The negroes immediately assembled at the mill with three day's 
rations. A diflJiculty had also occurred at Chappel's. But Sheriff 
Paysinger with a company of one hundred men captured sixty 
negroes, these without bloodshed. The whites immediately began 
to assemble at Clinton and by eleven o'clock yesterday over a 
thousand men had assembled on the public square whereat the 
negroes became very much alarmed and agreed to go home and 
behave themselves. By night, however, a hundred men had 
again collected, the whites having dispersed. But they were 
notified by the guard of fifty whites who had been left in town 
that they would all be arrested unless they dispersed immedi- 
ately and they immediately began to scatter. So ends the aflfair, 
I trust. They have threatened to make a San Domingo of South 
Carolina, but no San Domingo here ! 

September twenty-seventh. It is with pain and sorrow that 
I write it. Dr. Henry is no more. Clinton has lost its best elder 
and I have lost my best friend. Oh, God, pity the widow and the 
fatherless. 

Our railroad has stopped. Clinton is again under the weath- 
er. The darkest hour is just before dawn. Arise, Day- 
star, with healing in thy beams. 

October twenty-first. Alas! My poor country ! Our troubles 
are increasing. The election was held on the 19th and the ne- 
groes cheated us out of it. This excited the whites and on Thurs- 
day morning a fisticuff between a white man and a constabulary 
brought on a general row in which two negroes were killed. The 
passions of the whites were then aroused. The whole district 
flew to arms. All the guns belonging to the negro militia were 
siezed, Joe Crew's ofl^ice was torn to pieces, his papers were all 
destroyed, his furniture wrecked. Then began the reign of vio- 
lence. Yesterday morning two dead men, one the radical probate 
judge was found dead at Milam's Trestle; and Wade Perrin, a 
colored member of the House of Representatives was found dead 



134 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

at Martin's depot. Two negroes were also killed in the Rocky 
Spring neighborhood. Last night it was reported that negroes 
assembled at Kern's quarters and a party of men went down to 
drive them off. Oh, wretched country — how terrible is this con- 
dition! Violence! Anarchy! Civil War! I know not what to 
think much less what to do. The end is not yet. I fear this is 
but the beginning. Our whole land is thoroughly demoralized. 

Soldiers have been marching up and down our district arrest- 
ing with most glaring injustice peaceable citizens and dragging 
them to Columbia. All this harrasses the good and demoralizes 
the doubtful. God have mercy. Our country is in a deplorable 
condition. I feel as if we were cut off from the activities and 
sympathies of the world. 

1871— Age 28 

God has brought me by his grace to the beginning of 1871. 
I find myself standing upon its threshold and casting my eye for- 
ward to the work to be done, or the crown to be won and worn. 
Surrounded by an uncommonly demoralized state of affairs, I call 
upon myself to arm myself in his strength and gird my loins to 
make this year one of unprecedented toil. I lift my eyes heaven- 
ward. 

But if at the end of the year affairs are no better than they 
are today, if the church is as much demoralized, the country as 
isolated and the spirit of the people as much broken, I would like 
to go to another field. But may God alone rule. Today, then, I 
have opened a new book. Oh, God, help me to turn over a new 
leaf in my life. Especially make me more faithful in private ex- 
hortation and in prayer and in study. 

A little village consecrated to God and friendship is the 
pleasantest place in the world to dwell in but ours is so overrun 
with drunkenness and revelry and so oppressed by the fact of 
our R. R.'s sleep that unless God comes to our rescue, our pleasure 
will be at an end and I must needs remove to some other habita- 
tion. Oh, Lord, come to our rescue. 

My time flies very rapidly. I am busy always. And yet I 
seem to accomplish nothing. I feel as if a better day was dawn- 
ing for us. The country is becoming much more quiet and a 
great many negroes are leaving the country and those that re- 
main are behaving themselves. The R. R. however, seems to be 
dead. It will probably remain in its dormant state for sometime. 
But, Oh, Lord, how long, for this also is to the injury of thy cause. 



AGE TWENTY-THRKE— 1865 135 

I rejoice to hear that Emma Copeland, Delia Finley and Lessie 
Burgess have all made a resolution to dance no more. God help 
them to keep it, for the dancings here are gotten up in opposition 
to the church and are mere drunken frolics. 

Januai'ii seventh. Yesterday morning I called on Rev. Mr. 
M'Kittrick. He lives only three miles from Clinton and much 
nearer indeed than I thought. He has quite an interesting family. 
They are thinking of getting him at Rock Spring. As I was going 
into his door, his dog bit at me and tore my pants. 

January ninth. Rose early, built fire, attended to horse and 
other stock. Read Greek testament Heb. 8-9, Cor. 1-5, John 
9:1-10, Latin first Eclogue in Virgil, 3pp. in German. Wrote 
up Session book, note book and Journal. Read fifty pages in 
Osborne's Palestine. Visited Miss Sallie's School. Hired freed- 
men for next year. After dinner read twenty four pages phono- 
graphic correspondence. Rode up to George P. Copeland's and 
had a pleasant chat with Miss Mary and Louise Bell. Inter- 
viewed Brother M'Kittrick. After supper read the Home Journal, 
thirty-five pages phonographic correspondence, two of Bacon's 
Rssays in Phonography, family worship. Retired. 

Ja.niianj twelfth. I greatly feel the need of new books to 
assist me in my studies but I am so much in debt that I see no 
probability of my being able to buy any shortly. I believe I will 
try the people to see if we can get up money enough to purchase 
a melodeon for our Sunday School. 

January seventeenth. Today rode out to Duckett Copeland's 
— carried Florence with me. The scenery as Florence says, con- 
sists of trees, road, rail fences, negro houses and old fields. There 
is but very little attractive scenery within ten miles of Clinton. 

I am sadly disheartened by this day's work. I feel almost 
like giving up. At the evening meeting of the session, we ar- 
raigned four of our members on the charge of profanity. Some 
remarks I made on the subject of praying have made Mr. Bell 
think of resigning his eldership. 

February seventh. The Ladies' Society, in consequence of 
my efforts to keep it alive, met at Mrs. Phinney's yesterday even- 
ing. I am rejoiced to say that it was a successful meeting. May 
they still be able to keep agoing and do much good. They have 
not a large fund but have succeeded in getting together a fund of 
$20.00 more or less. 

Ripley has made up his mind to go to the Seminary in Sep- 
tember. It will certainly be to my joy. I would be glad to know 
that mv church had sent out a minister. 



136 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

February tenth. I conducted prayer meeting this evening, 
subject of my address "The Uses of Trouble.'' After prayer 
meeting Emma Owens came over and I gave her her first lesson 
in Latin. I have offered to give her a lesson or two every week 
so as to help the dear girl all I can. May God reward all such 
work I do by giving a friend to my children, should they ever be- 
come orphans. 

February fifteenth. Our country is certainly a prey for the 
wicked eagles. Sixteen men were killed last week in Union 
County. They were all negroes, taken out of jail and hanged by 
the Ku Klux. God help our wretched land. 

Tuesday evening I called on Mrs. Bailey and got bitten by 
her dog; not seriously. Mrs. B. seemed more troubled than I 
about it. 

The first flowers of the season have come and are envased on 
my study table. The year is in its youth and so am I. Let me, 
like the year, be fruitful. 

I have been gardening a little. I received several new va- 
rieties of strawberry plants from the patent office which I am 
trying. 

March eighth. At four o'clock this afternoon another re- 
sponsibility was placed upon my shoulders. A little boy, name- 
less but not friendless found his way, through much tribulation, 
into this strange world. 

You little waif 
Whose tiny bark, long tossed on unknown seas 
Is stramded here at last by some sweet breeze. 

May this thy grief 
That forth in sickly lamentations breaks 
Meet soon ivith gentler winds and softer cheeks. 

Rest little one 
Upon thy mother's bosom, pure and ivhite; 
Clutch it with little nails that glisten bright; 

It is thy throne. 
No king in royal robe delighted more 
Than thou dost in its boundless luscious store, 

God bless thee, child! 
And. may thy Mother, who in pain did give 
Thee life, aye, a full thousand fold receive, 

Thou undefiled! 
Full recompense of love for all her woe, 
Which, little debtor, thou to her dost owe. 



AGE TWENTY-THREE— 1866 137 

Dear Lord, bless this little one and may he be a child after 
thine own heart. 

On Sunday night for the first time in many months, we had 
more colored people than whites at church. M'Kittrick preached 
for me. 

Today is the sixth anniversary of my wedding. Dear Lord, 
pour out thy richest blessing on my dear Mary. She has been a 
good wife to me. The first quarrel is yet in the di.stant future. 
I love her today more than ever I did. 

April twentH'Second. I love to gather the little children of 
my church around me, that I may get their hearts. Last night 
Beulah, Garnie Phinney, Ella Henry and Alice Davidson were 
with us. They are all good little children but full of life and mis- 
chief. They will be grown some day and that day not far hence. 
The three first seem much attached to me but Alice is rather 
afraid of me. I must win her affections. So only can I win her 
to love those things that I love. 

I had a good time preaching on Sunday night to about thirty 
whites and sixty blacks. 

On Mondaif, May fifteenth having made all previous arrange- 
ments I left Mary in tears and with Florence in the buggy and 
Rip as a driver, I started for Newberry. One mile this side of 
Martin's our axle broke, but we borrowed another buggy and ar- 
rived safely at Newberry. Ripley returned with the buggy and 
Florence and myself entered the train. Florence was very badly 
frightened at the engine but I succeeded in pacifying her. Silas 
Johnson was with me and he proved an exceedingly agreeable 
traveling companion. Our party was increased at Alston by 
Brother Law and Mr. Anderson. At Columbia we all went to the 
Columbia Hotel and were roused at one-thirty at night, took the 
Columbia and Atlanta and Augusta road to Augusta. The train 
passes some two miles through the very heart of Augusta. I 
noted especially the Augusta Presbyterian Church where I did so 
much reporting in 186L The train passes by the Augusta fac- 
tory, a very large, fine building and the most prosperous factory 
of the sort in the south. At Union Point I had the pleasure of 
meeting Minnie, Mamie and Bessie. Mamie and Bess are grown 
very much, almost out of my recollection. I gave Florence over to 
their care and sped on to Atlanta. We spent several hours at 
Atlanta. There was but little daylight to spare but Mrs. John- 
stone and myself walked up one of the principal streets, past East- 
man's B. College. The portion of the town we saw was not very 
handsomely built, tho there were some fine buildings. We were 
shown through the magnificent hotel, the Kimball House. The 



138 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

chandelier in the Hall first attracted our attention by its brilliancy 
and magnificence. We mounted up to the top floor in the steam 
elevator and then walked down. The whole building was finely 
carpeted. The parlors were superbly fitted up. The hotel sup- 
plied with all possible appliances for comfort. From Atlanta to 
Chattanooga I took a sleeping car and had a glorious night's rest. 
The scenery from Chattanooga to Huntsville is very beautiful. 
The various ghmpses of the Tennessee river, the palisaded banks, 
the mountains rising in the distance, the shimmering dew on leaf 
and flower, all combined to put us into raptures. On the train I 
met, beside Brother Vedder, with whom I traveled from Atlanta, 
Dr. J. L. and J. R. and J. S. Wilson, Dr. Woodrow, Dr. Peck and 
Dr. Arnold Miller. 

On the summit of Lookout Mountain, near the Summit House. 
Petrie, Law and Hutton, standing near me. Ten thousand square 
miles of God's earth, and spread out at my feet. A pale blue tint 
covers everything but just below the city of Chattanooga in ap- 
pearance a little scattered village struggles through it. The Ten- 
nessee winds around the base of the mounds and bounds back 
from it. Fm 3000 feet in the air. Only think of the Himalayas, 
ten times higher. Wonderful are God's works! A few miles, 
part in the carriage, mostly on foot, brought us to the rock city. 
"Here we stand with towers of rock rising on every side. Glori- 
ous! Together we sang the doxology, Traise God from Whom 
All Blessings Flow.' My God is a rock. This on May 20th. In 
the cave masses of rock covering us over. How cool ! ''Under the 
shadows of a great rock in a thirsty land." From this point we 
climbed to Chickamauga Cliff, passing Bragg's headquarters and 
the college and the falls which we had no time to examine. 
Chickamauga Cliff — 350 feet of sheer precipice. Chattanooga, 
seven miles to the left. Mountains veil the far horizon. Glori- 
ous, glorious, glorious. These are thy glorious works parent of 
good. Awfully sublime! Grand beyond description! It is the 
finest view I ever saw in my life. Missionary Ridge is over 
against us where the battle was fought. As we returned I leaped 
carelessly a chasm about two feet wide and found afterwards it 
was 200 feet deep. We entered a cave by a passageway many 
feet high but barely wide enough for a man to pass for some thirty 
or forty feet. It suggested to me "the straight and narrow way." 
We returned to Summit House. Have just finished a very fine 
dinner. The mist is all lifted and I can now see peaks in seven 
states — Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North 
Carolina, Virginia and Kentucky. After dinner we rode up to 
Lookout Point and there we had several magnificent views. Our 
whole party was photographed on the very tip end of the point. 






AGE TWENTY-THREE— 18G5 139 

We could have stayed much lonjjer but time pressed and we had 
to tear ourselves away and return to Chattanooga after a most 
charming day spent amid the grandeurs of God's work. George 
P. and I walked over a part of the rapidly building city and ex- 
amined the new and splendid hotel. 

Father was in Florida when I reached Athens and did not 
get back till Wednesday. He is going to move to Tallahassee, 
Florida to take charge of the church in that city. I am heartily 
glad of it. 

On Friday, the Ladies Society met. They still keep pegging 
away. 

I trust that Clinton will gradually improve. It is sadly at a 
standstill as a town. Although as a church I am glad to note, by 
the minutes of Presbytery that it stands fourth on the list as re- 
gards members received, ninth in total of communicants (and 
we omit our negro members; counting them we would be third) ; 
first in number of infants baptized; third in amount actually paid 
the pastor and eighth in average per capita of money given. 
This is doing well for a church that stood at the bottom of the list 
seven years ago. May God still bless and prosper us. I some- 
times have thought that I ought to be in a less retired field. This 
was sinful ambition and pride. I now think that if God thinks 
me fit for a larger field, let him put me there. I will stay here 
till I clearly hear him saying, "Come up higher." There is suf- 
ficient room here to employ my highest powers. 

June twentieth. Willie Rook has come up to take charge of 
the Farm and Garden, 

June twentii-first. Oh, how beautiful is the bright green of 
this early morning. I wonder if all men love to look at God's 
trees as much as I do. 

I believe that God has a purpose in locating me in Clinton 
and I am determined to work it out. This little church may yet 
be an earnest, prosperous, live church. Laurens County may yet 
be a center of Presbyterian influence. Oh, that I had strength 
for the work before me. I live for labor. It may be that an im- 
petus may be given to things in this locality during the next year. 
This is a fine center for work. I am in hope that it will grow to 
be a considerable place yet. God grant it. If so, I will never 
expect to leave it, but to labor here till I die. 

I have just been comparing notes with Mr. Bowmaii and we 
find that there are in Laurens County 



140 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

15 Baptist 

12 Presbyterian 

4 Associate Ref. Presbyterian 

1 Episcopalian church. 

Making a total of 54 churches for white people in Laurens County. 
There are, I suppose, some fifteen or twenty established by the 
colored people. 

Clinton is evidently passing through days of dullness. No 
improvement is to be seen in anything, the streets are deserted; 
the stores have no customers ; families speak of moving away. I 
feel convinced that all or nearly all of those I love the best will be 
gone, another year. Is it my duty still to remain when in all prob- 
ability it will become impossible to support my family here an- 
other year? I leave this matter entirely up to thee, my heavenly 
Father. My wish is to remain here. God has prospered my 
work. My church has been built up but now it all looks as if it 
were going to ruin. 

I got a letter from Joe Crews last night, telling me that as I 
am a young man I may live to see the L. R. R. built. 

September fourth. The young people have succeeded in get- 
ting up a Singing school to be taught by Messrs. Fike and Comp- 
ton. I am very glad of this. Any display of life re-kindles the 
flame of hope in my heart. R. Blakely has a new clerk, a young 
man, named Crane Jones. I must invite him up and get him to 
feeling at home at my house. I preached last night to forty 
whites and fifty blacks. 

New improvements. A fence around the Methodist Church, 
work on my house, new steps to Copeland store and the lodge, a 
new kitchen at Charlie Franklin's. 

September fifth. The people of Laurens say they are going to 
build a railroad from Laurensville to Augusta and throw away 
ours altogether. If so, goodbye Clinton. It is not altogether 
certain however, that talking about a thing accomplishes it. I 
still live in hope although Clinton is surely and rapidly wearing 
away. We need something to revive us and I do not know any 
help for it save the L. R. R. 

The sweetest, most touching thing I had said of myself while 
there and one that thrilled my heart was this. Miss Anna Leland 
says that one of the girls came in from preaching and said to her, 
throwing her arms around her, "Oh! Miss Anna, don't you love 
Mr. Jacobs." It does not please me to be told that I am a great 
preacher for I know it is false, but to be told that I am loved, goes 



AGE TWKNTY-THREE— 1866 141 

right to my heart. They made a great fuss about me there but it 
was all chaff but the saying of this sweet little girl. 

We are to have a Baptist Church in Clinton. There! Listen 
to it. It is our own sweet Sabbath bell. 

Mr. Phinny has just returned from New York and informs 
me that he has purchased the chair and table for the church and 
also the material for the cushions. Beside this he succeeded in 
begging money to buy for the Sunday school a small cabinet organ. 
So that all my propositions in this line need now be thrown aside. 
Phinney is a real jewel. 

The merchants are opening their new goods. Mess Bailey 
made me a present of a new hat. 

The last Phoenix contains a proclamation from Grant charg- 
ing Laurens County with insubordination and Ku Kluxism and 
threatening us with martial law. "Oh! Lord, how long!" "Dark- 
ness and clouds are round about him but justice and truth are the 
habitations of his throne." The great city of Chicago is in ashes. 
My soul pities them. "How are thy palaces come to desolation as 
in a moment." 

"Choose all my changes for me." It is a quaint way of put- 
ting it but I earnestly plead that if God wishes me to remain here 
or to go hence that in either case he would make my way un- 
mistakably clear. 

None of my plans for the advancement of our little Clinton 
have as yet taken shape. How can I work with the railroad in the 
condition in which it is? A good many seem to think that we 
never will have a railroad more. Surely with a track laid there 
seems to be nothing to prevent. We must have it. We must have 
more than one and if not the old one, then the new one at any rate. 
Oh, Clinton ! Clinton ! How I have loved thee and toiled for 
thee. The Farm and Garden is on foot once more. I am de- 
termined to make it a good thing. This will be the means of help- 
ing our little town somewhat. A good school, a good church li- 
brary, a mission to the negroes. Why may I not have them all? 
Lord send help. 

I am still unsettled as to my staying or moving. I have left 
it all in my Father's hands. If he thinks best for me to stay, I 
will stay. If he says go, I will go. I am much attached to this 
church. God bless it and make it prosperous. There are some 
things about it that encourage me greatly, others that make me 
very despondent. So many of my members are doing badly. 

hi thee. Oh, Lord, I trust 

My shield, art thou, my stay. 

Man boasts; — his strength is dust, 



142 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

But thou art life alway. 
In thee, Oh Lord, I live; 
I have no stay but Thee; 
My solace in deep grief, 
Thy hand, it raiseth me. 
Oh stay, by me, my Lord, 
Each hour, my strength renew; 
Defend me ivith thy siuord; 
Me with thyself imbue; 
Thank God, he knows my name! 
Thank God, he hears my prayer! 
Now let my tongue cry. Shame! 
Up man! In God's strength, dare! 

November tenth. I do not think it is right for me to feel as 
I do about leaving Clinton. I know I can be useful here. I feel 
that there is work to do. I believe I can make a support. God 
will help me if I do my duty. I am determined, therefore, that 
I will not leave. For fifty years to come if God spares my life so 
long and the people will bear with me, I will be here. 

I have concluded to decline the call to Good Hope, Ala. I 
think God will approve my decision. I feel now as though I were 
to be permanently located here. God help me to work for the up- 
building of my church and the community. I have several plans 
afoot. 

The population of our little town has gradually grown less. 
There will shortly be eight or ten vacant houses. I am in hope, 
however, that when the R. R. revives there will be a great influx 
of population and of business here and that I trust of the right 
sort. My stay in this place is guaranteed for another year. At 
the end of that I trust we will see our way clear to go on with 
vigor. 

I have a project in my head which like many other projects 
is I fear to be finally unsuccessful. / propose the establishment of 
an orphan asylum under the care of South Carolina Synod, the 
same to be placed here and to be taken care of by the Presbyter- 
ians of South Carolina. If I were a man of faith and energy I 
could easily carry it into effect but as I am only a little man, with 
hardly zeal enough for my daily vocation, were I to undertake it, 
it would be a signal failure. 

They who generally sigh for a larger field of labor, do not 
properly take care of the little field they already have. Make your 
field larger and more attractive, my dear sir, study more, visit 
more, work more, pray more. You are in great want, but action, 
energy, faith, and perseverance are the main things you need. I 



AGE TWENTY-THREE— 1865 143 

have declined the call to the Good Hope Church. For thee, dear 
dying Clinton, let me now labor with untiring exertion. 

Last night (November tiventij -ninth) we had a merry party 
in our little parlor. Jim Copeland, Dunlap Phinney, Crane Jones, 
Rush Blakely, Sallie and Emma Owens, Lizzie and Essie Cope- 
land and Eula Blakely. There was a good deal of sport and a 
considerable amount of talking. God bless these young folks. 

I have been thinking much on the orphans' home scheme. 
Would to God that I had more energy. My chariot wheels are 
in the ruts and a lazy mule is my only Bucephalus. Would God 
that I had strength. Now ! Now ! Now ! Why wait for the 
coming good time. Patience, soul ! Work now. Now lay the 
foundations. 

I was informed that a certain church had their eyes on me in 
case their own pastor left them. It made me feel very much as 
though I had been told that a certain wife had her eye on me in 
case her husband died. I do not like to be told such things. 

Our library society still progresses. We have now fifteen 
subscribers. We expect surely to make up the twenty. We 
counted up yesterday and found that our town numbers exactly 
176 white citizens of all ages and sizes and sexes. We have now 
much better prospect of a railroad. Perhaps we will have a 
town yet and if a town, then a church. 

Pleasant news — Dr. Boozer, a Presbyterian family, has rent- 
ed Mr. Copeland's house and is moving in. B. S. Jones also, which 
will give us a teacher and scholar. Hayne Williams also, which 
will give us eight scholars and W. D. Watts which will give us 
four scholars. All of which is by way of comfort and good news. 

December thirtieth. The year nears its grave. This even- 
ing is probably the last time in 1871 that shall find me writing this 
journal. Let me take a retrospect of it and see what landmarks. 
In labors I have been less abundant than in the previous year. 
Pastoral visits 370. Sermons preached 229. Prepared 65. 
Miles travelled in God's service 2,000. Pastoral conversations 
145, but more abundant in the years before. In honors, I have 
been to the assembly for the first time, Moderator of Presbytery 
for first time and honored of God in the glorious revivals of last 
summer. In money matters, a little nearer out of debt than I 
w^as one year ago. As to progreess in my church I cannot say 
very much. I do not think Clinton has retrograded very much 
during the year. It has gained in liberality and has lost a little 
in membership. The town has been at a dead standei^ill with 
premonitorj' symptoms of galloping consumption. 



CHAPTER NINE 

1872— Age 29 

They are still talking about our Railroad. The Charleston 
and Columbia railroad has actually purchased it and now the 
question is will Laurens County raise $50,000 to help along the 
job. 

I received propositions from Friendship Church to supply 
them, once a month, on a salary of $200.00. I stated the case yes- 
terday to the Session and they proposed that I accept the call 
promising me the same salary for the three sabbaths of each 
month that they heretofore gave for four. This is exceedingly 
kind in them. I intend accepting so that my salary will now be 
$900.00 instead of $700.00. 

January sixteenth. Last night we had a meeting and or- 
ganized the ''Clinton Library Society". I was elected president. 
I trust that we will succeed in carrying it through to entire suc- 
cess. 

January nineteenth. Have had a visit from Major Leland 
in reference to the Laurens Railroad. We are greatly in hope 
of permanent success. Dr. Boozer has moved to Clinton. He is 
a praying Presbyterian and will strengthen us. 

The congregation held a meeting and unanimously gave me 
leave to preach at Friendship. This is very kind of them and is 
a step in advance. On next sabbath will thank them for it. 

The news today is that work is to begin at once on the L. R. 
R. Thank God. 

March seventh. Last night at the meeting of the Library 
Society we made arrangements for a public lecture to the people 
of Clinton in behalf of our Library Society. Admission ten cents. 
Orators of the day Drs. J. T. Craig and Rev. W. P. Jacobs. We 
hope to raise a little money for our society and perhaps do good 
beside. The idea was broached that we have a Male College 
(high school) in Clinton. I trust this idea will crystalize yet. 

March twelfth. Our Monthly will hereafter be a distinctly 
religious periodical. I have made the change for two reasons. 
First, I hope thereby to do some good. Second, I wish to keep 
up my printing office and this is the only kind of journal that my 
conscience will allow me to keep up. I will put my name on the 

144 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 145 

cover, will endeavor to gain the cooperation of my brethren and 
will labor to increase its subscription to five hundred copies and 
will then wait further developments. I do not go into it with 
the hope of making money for there is no money in it. I do it 
from my love for doing good and speaking through the press. 
Lord, bless my undertaking. 

March fifteenth. Thirty years old today. Realize it, I can- 
not. How time flies and how little have I accomplished — noth- 
ing absolutely. I have made for myself no name. I have done 
still less for God, nothing as I ought. No, let me not talk iri this 
strain. I can never become great. I have not the talent for a 
leader. I must abide here in faith and patience and fill the little 
place that God has bidden me occupy. The smallest screw is of 
vast consequence in a great and complicated piece of machinery. 
How do I know but that I am such a screw. I once thought that 
I would become great — goodbye forever to such folly. I now 
trust that, in quiet, God may allow me to do in this retired place 
much toward building up this little village in grace and in the 
knowledge of God. In some mysterious way He brought me to 
Clinton, has bound me to it and I will bide his time in patience. 
Was a little inconsequential village ever raised into notoriety 
and importance through the talents and labors of one man? Hie 
labor, hoc opus est. But is it not a noble thing to do? May not he 
say with just pride Exegi monnmentum aere perennius, who by 
his own God-blessed efforts builds up a church, establishes a 
fountain of Christian life, reclaims a village and raises it to a 
standard of liberal enlightenment. I cannot do much but cannot 
I set others to work, not all in one day but gradually, until at last 
Clinton becomes a center of refinement and true life. God help me ! 

An event, small and yet important has occurred in my life. 
I wrote an article for the Christian Weekly and received pay for 
it. This is the first paid-for article that I ever wrote. It gives 
me a lift. It encourages me. 

March thirty-first. Confusion! Confusion and trouble! 
Six or seven of our best young men and Bob Williams, one of our 
deacons were this morning arrested by the military on the charge 
of murder. Of course the charges are as false as they can be, 
but innocence is no protection against hated and tyrannical gov- 
ernment. They selected Sunday morning for their outrages as 
they did on the former occasion. Oh, God, to whom vengeance 
belongeth, show thyself. 

April seventh. Well, such a time as we have had! Our 
country is ruined. Our best men have been snatched away to a 
foreign jail. A system of most cruel persecution has teen in- 



146 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

augurated. We are in the hands of the enemy. They have de- 
termined on our destruction. I have been trying to comfort the 
poor women and children that are left behind. 

My ways of thinking are so very different now from what 
they were when I first began to preach that I find it impossible 
to rewrite a sermon. I make a new one out and out when I make 
the attempt. 

April nineteenth. On last Monday at the earnest request of 
some members of my flock I went down to Columbia to see our 
prisoners, spending my time with Ripley at the Seminary. To 
the great surprise of them all I visited the jail early next morn- 
ing. They were exceedingly glad to see me. I was with them at 
the preliminary examination which w^as a complete and shameful 
farce. I hoped to see a little justice, but saw only the wicked 
spreading himself like a green bay tree. Wednesday evening on 
bidding them farewell I was almost overwhelmed by the touching 
instances of affection they displayed for me. I believe it is the 
policy of the government to crush us thoroughly. God help our 
poor land. We will betake ourselves more earnestly to prayer 
than ever. Oh, God, help these innocent men. 

I understand from Mr. Tom Crews that there is yet hope of 
the Laurens railroad. 

April twenty-fifth. I have been very busy the past two days 
working in behalf of our prisoners. On day before yesterday I 
had to go to Laurens to consult with Col. William Simpson, took 
dinner at Bob Richardson's, and of course after dinner I had to 
go up and see our girls — Emma and Janie Copeland, Emma Ow- 
ens, Lizzie Young and Eula Blakely, and of course I had to kiss 
them all. Yesterday I was busy as could be taking down the 
testimony of witnesses, recording over thirty. Last night we had 
a touching little prayer meeting in behalf of our prisoners. We 
had just heard that they had been handcuffed and taken to 
Charleston, this additional cruelty being put upon them by the 
authorities probably on account of Sam West's escape. At our 
meeting there was not a dry eye in the house. My text, "I was 
sick and in prison and ye came unto me." 

May second. Heard the glad news that our men are bailed. 
Day is breaking. At prayer meeting last Thursday night I read 
a letter in response to one from our church from the prisoners. 
It was the most touching letter I ever read, breathing such trust, 
such forgiveness and such humility. There was not a dry eye in 
the house when I had finished. 

Mai/ fifth. We were greatly rejoiced last night by seeing 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 147 

our prisoners, the most of them, the balance will soon be up. 
They are bailed until August. Thank God. 

Our Monthly is getting much more into favor since it has 
become a religious monthly and really I enjoy editing it, a great 
deal more than I once did. I wish I had begun it in its present 
form and style when I began The Witness. It would by this time 
have become a power in our community. But I had to live and 
learn. 

I am in hopes that an avenue of usefulness is opening before 
me in the county such as God designs me to fill. I am thinking as 
I write of the part I am taking in our Conferences, Conventions 
and Presbyteries. Our Monthly, I trust, will also become a means 
of disseminating many energetic thoughts among the people. I 
begin to live it and think of it as a pulpit. Then, if I could lay 
hold upon the schools and make them what they ought to be and 
if he would bless me in founding an orphans* home, my heart 
would leap, yea, shout for joy. One indomitable, energetic spirit 
might accomplish wonders, and perhaps right here and now is 
the very field which God designs for me to fill. I see where grand 
purposes might be wrought out and vast work done and the more 
I think of it, the more the work grows in my vision. Oh, God, 
send light, send help! 

Oh, my soul, throw down all other aspirations. Content 
thyself, here. "Seekest thou great things for thyself, seek them 
not." Content thyself to spend and be spent in Clinton for the 
divine glory and if in thine humble lot, thou art faithful, even 
here shall the Lord crown thy years with fatness. Lord, then, 
give me, I pray thee, this desire of my heart, that my pathway 
may be illumined and that I may see it abiding among these 
plains and hills even until thou shalt bid me "come up higher." 

I am glad to record that our Post Office is soon to be re- 
opened and Clinton is to be blest with daily communication with 
the world. Political matters are brightening. There is hope yet. 

My plans are: 

1, — The division of S. C Presbytery. 

2. — The establishment of a Synodical Orphans' home. 

3. — The foimding of a Presbyterian Male High School. 

With these things before me, may I not by perseverance 
begin to promote them. Am I in earnest? Then why do I not 
throw myself into the field and with energy fight this matter 
clean through. 

June thirteenth. The picnic comes off today. The young 
people, nearly all of them members of the church, got* up their 
ball last night. Oh, my Father, help me to be patient, but I did 



148 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

not think they would treat me so. I am not going to the picnic 
today. All know that it was I who got it up and if they choose 
to cast contempt on me, by thus dancing as it were in my very 
teeth, I must show them that I do not look upon the matter with 
indifference. Perhaps this is the beginning of the end. Perhaps 
my Master sees that I needed some strong mover to make us be- 
gin the work of leaving and has given me this hurt. I will pray 
over it. 

June sixteenth. It was very hard work for me to keep my 
resolutions. I went to my study and there betook myself to 
prayer. Presently Kit Young came in. I talked with him, told 
him why I could not go. I loved the souls of my people too much 
to let the occasion go by unimproved. He left, very much troubled. 
Then came Rush Blakely and Bill McKelvy; then Bob Davis. 
They urged me to join them. I told them why I could not and I 
think convinced them that I had done right. Then I had a time 
of self-examination and prayer. Then Kit came over again with 
a great basket full of the fat things of the picnic, then Miss Callie 
Davis and Cousin Nannie Young had a time with us at night. 
Mrs. Gussie McClintock and Florence Cheek from Laurens, Em- 
ma Owens and Rush Blakely came over to see us. Today I preach- 
ed to about a hundred. They thought I was going to handle the 
dancers heavily. They do not know me. I preached on a subject 
appropriate to the occasion but I do not think that any one could 
say that I even remotely touched their feelings, although I feel 
that from their rapt attention I did reach their hearts. Well, 
thank God for this much. The leaven works. In Him I trust. I 
did consecrate this morning's work to Him. I believe through 
Jesus that the leaven will work and the bread will be good. 

A very delicate office is now on me. It is to confer with a 
meeting of the young people this afternoon at the church. Oh, 
my dear. Lord, show me what to say! How exceedingly wise 
ought a pastor to be. "As wise as a serpent" ; and yet let me 
never forget that other part, "as harmless as a dove." Lord, 
my Lord, send me help. 

They came. There were fifty or sixty young men and ladies 
out and we had a touching time. Many eyes were moistened and 
I trust good was accomplished. Many think that yesterday, Sat- 
urday's work did more to break up dancing than any two day's 
work that was ever done in Clinton. We will see. The whole 
affair has the more deeply interested me in these people. 

My hand is in. I published an article recently aboUt our or- 
phans' home. I intend to preach shortly to my people about it. 
I intend carrying it to the District meeting and to Presbytery 
and to Synod. 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 149 

Jime eighteenth. In two days our railroad will be resold to 
the highest bidder. It is hoped that it will be purchased by the 
S. C. R. R. Possibly by the W. M. R. R. In either case we will 
have a railroad that will be a railroad. 

Five dollars on my salary came in very opportunely. I am 
going to look for mercies and encouragements this year. I am 
determined to press forward. On ! On ! On ! If one dollar is of- 
fered to me for the Home of the Fatherless, this month, or one 
child is tendered to me, I will take it as God's call to this' work 
and if I enter upon it, then my lot is fixed for life in Clinton. 

Oh, my God, help me about the Orphans' Asylum and show 
me what to do. The great reasons for my not undertaking it are: 
1 — my exceeding littleness. 2 — the great expense. The reasons 
why I ought to undertake it are : 1 — the great need of it. 2 — 
God's willingness to help those who try to serve Him. 

I have almost come to the conclusion that it is my duty to go 
ahead in the matter of the Orphans' Asylum. I wait for the first 
dollar to be given me, towards it. It will require five thousand 
dollars to buy a lot and to build such a house as is needed. But my 
Father owns all the kingdoms of the earth. He is able to supply 
richly all the needs of his little ones. He is especially the helper 
of the fatherless. I have been reading Midler's Life of Christ, 
but I cannot say that I agree altogether with him in some of his 
points. I do not believe that it is either lack of faith or a sin 
for believing Christians to own houses and stocks. What would 
become of the world if all of us were opposed to holding proper- 
ty? Who could have houses to rent to us if nobody owned any? 
But at the same time, I accept two of his propositions: 1 — We are 
God's children ; 2 — God answers the prayer of faith. I own a 
house, I receive a salary and it is right in me to do so but my 
house, my salary are the Lord's. I use them in His service. I 
could not serve Him unless I did own them. 

I am thinking of getting a ledger to present to the Orphans' 
Asylum. Oh, my God, show me my duty in this great matter. 

I see that (by the minutes of Presbytery just published) the 
Clinton Church stands fourth in number of members received 
last year, twelfth in total membership, sixth in number of chil- 
dren in Sunday School, second in funds for education, first in 
number of children baptized, fourth (with Friendship) in salary, 
ninth in total amount contributed, seventh in average per capita 
and was the only one which filled up every blank in the statistical 
report. Pretty good for the church that eight years ago stood 
about at the bottom of the list of the 56 churches in nearly every- 
thing. 



150 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Oh, my Father, guide and help me and give us a railroad and 
peace. Lord. Oh, Lord, send peace in our time. I pray for the 
prosperity of my little town. 

I have just been thrilled by the intelligence — Oh, God, grant 
that it may be true — that all the Ku Klux prosecutions in this 
state will be stopped. But I will not clap my hands just yet. 

What does the Lord mean ! He has sent me an invitation 
to go to Virginia to labor as a S. S. missionary. Salary $1,000, 
horse and buggy, traveling expenses. I must consider it prayer- 
fully. Our railroad is again at sea. The last sale appears to 
have been a fraudulent one and it will be resold. No contradic- 
tion as yet of the happy rumors of the 15th. 

God is encouraging me in many things to abide in Clinton.* 
If our railroad works out right and old Greely is elected, I for 
one will feel as if Clinton were the best place for me to live and 
that I could here leave a more indelible record and do more good 
than anywhere else. I see where all our evils are working out 
good. 

This is the last day of July. On reviewing my month's work 
in the light of the resolutions formed, I find that I have had my 
mind settled (thank God) that it is my duty to remain in Clin- 
ton, without reference to railroads, politics, or anything else. 

I feel it to be my duty to give up the Orphans' home till God 
shall deem me more ripe in Christian experience and better qual- 
ified to undertake it. 

Well it is done. The Clinton High School Association is or- 
ganized. We have property to begin on worth a thousand dol- 
lars. We have $300.00 subscribed to improve the building and 
it is under the control of Presbyterians. 

At the Session meeting in the afternoon, it was actually pro- 
posed by Mr. Bell to establish an Orphans' Home in Clinton ! A 
Presbyterian Ohphans' Home! I was greatly astonished. Oh, 
God, whither art thou leading me? They appointed a committee 
to draw up a plan by which it might be carried out. 

Mr. Phinney has gone to New York. It was arranged for 
him to make an effort to raise funds for the Orphans' Home. If 
he gets anything we will at once break ground. If he fails, no 
more will be said about it. 

Today we have heard that our sister-in-law, Irene Dillard 
is very low. Mary has gone up to see her. May God take care 
of her and protect her while she is gone. 



•Clinton, S. C— Our Monthly ifiv«»s a Hketch of the hi»tory of the Clinton ProHbytorian 
church. In 1854 Rpv. Z. I>. Holnu's Ik-kho to pnaoh in the outHkirts of a now town. A 
huilrlintr wan i-rrrtcd and the church orirnni/.od on July 2Hth. 1855 with thirty mrmbers. Two 
•■Mi-rM and two draronH wi«ro «-l«'ct«'«l. In JHT)! Mr. HolmoH r«'8iKn«*<l. and Kov. W. V. Jaoohn 
waH fh'ctcc'd the firnt paHtor. A Pri'-shytorian Sun<lay School. w«'okly prayi-r nu'««tinK and Sun- 
day nitiht Hvrvicvn wi-ro cHtaldiMhi'd. The church at one lime had two hundred colort»<l nn'm- 
h««r» hut the political i-xcitcmentH from IHOfi to 1871 ••Htranifod thorn and thoutrh thi*y have 
never formally withdrawn, they do not manifoMt any ureat intereBt in the church. (Observer). 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 151 

September fifteenth. Yesterday we had an election which 
resulted in the choice of Dr. Boozer and Mr. West, elders; Rush 
Blakely, Kit Young and Mess Bailey, deacons. God grant that 
they may be found faithful. I sent off an order yesterday for 
new printing material. 

Septemhey sixteeyith. Trouble already — Rush Blakely drunk. 
Mr. Green mad as possible, because he was not elected elder. The 
whole town stirred up, small congregations. — Lord send help! 

Oh God! Thou leadest me! Is it thy will? Shall I write it? 
Then so be it — Thy home for fatherless children shall be found- 
ed. Dear Lord, use me. 

October sixth. I received by the mail last night a letter from 
Vedder, asking me whether I would consent to remove to the low 
country and take charge of the Summerville field as Evangelist 
in Charleston Presbytery. It has stirred me up again. I do pray 
God most earnestly to direct my steps. What wilt thou have me 
to do, Lord? Is it thy will that I should go or stay? 

October eighth. Yesterday I drew up a plan for our Or- 
phans* Home to be known as The Thornivell Orphanage in mem- 
ory of dear, good Dr. Thornwell. I am in great hope that the 
plan will be adopted and will succeed. I see that it is a nail to 
fasten me to Clinton if I undertake it. It will be something to 
be proud of, will be a great advantage to our church, to our little 
town ; will make Clinton a point of Presbyterian centrality and 
will give our people something to do. God speed the blessed work. 

In thinking over the work that I have done here, there is 
one pleasant thought, that is, I have taught these people the 
meaning of the word Pastor. Is not that something? 

October twentieth. I feel very much discouraged by Mr. 
Green's non-attendance, but I can't help it. If things do not 
work better I shall leave, if Mr. Green refuses to give to the sal- 
ary. 

In the meeting of Session this afternoon the subject of the 
Orphans' Home came up. It was fully discussed and finally re- 
ferred to a meeting to be held at my house tonight. I will be 
still and hear what God hath decided for me to do. Whatever He 
does is best. I just wait on Him. My text last night was *'I will 
follow thee wheresoever thou goest." Surely I can practice my 
own preaching. 

Well, the thing is done. Last night the meeting came off at 
my house and it was unanimously agreed to go to work* to build 
the Orphans' Home at Clinton to be known as *'The Thoniwell 
Orphanage.'' Oh, my God, give me courage to face the thousand 



152 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and one disappointments that I must meet in carrying out this 
resolve. Help me to work not for self, but for thy honor and 
glory. Oh, my God, prosper this work. Grant that it may suc- 
ceed, and that there may arise light to us. Dear Lord, please, 
for Jesus' sake, relieve the disturbed state of our country and 
give us our railroad. Restore the peace and harmony of our 
church and help us to work with our whole heart for this blessed 
cause. Father! Father! Father! I have ventured my all, my 
present, my future, all reputation, all honor, all advancement. 
Lord, it is for thy sake. Prosper me, my God, or if I go down, 
still prosper the work. Bless the work and bless my dear wife 
so that we may strive together for this holy purpose. And now 
for work — writing — printing — reading — speaki^ig. Courage 
heart ! 

Are not my hands full? Pastor of two churches, editor of 
Our Monthly, superintendent of two Sunday Schools, president of 
a high School Association and a Library Society, and now of 
this Orphanage, not to mention the Chaplaincy of the Grange and 
the Lodge. I must resign Friendship and have that much less to 
do so that I may concentrate more. I forgot too, that 1 am chair- 
man of at least half a dozen Presbyterial and Sessional Commit- 
tees. Is there not danger of letting some of these irons burn? 
It was once printed of me when I was a boy, "He did the work of 
two men and did it well." Shoulder now these responsibilities 
and work faithfully in the good cause. I could not possibly get 
through the work I have to do if I did not have this little print- 
ing office. 

October twenty -ninth. I have been gone for several days. 
On last Friday morning the constables came down and arrested 
a dozen of our peaceful citizens and took them off to jail. Like 
the chills, this is so common, we have got used to it. While the 
arresting was going on we held a meeting in full sight of them 
and elected N. J. Holmes and Miss Ida as our teachers for an- 
other year. 

I talked much about our Orphanage and received the first 
gift to it from an orphan, little Willie Anderson. God prosper 
the good work. I go to Laurens tomorrow night to go to work 
for this matter. 

Our arrested men are all out of jail, bound over till No- 
vember court. God shield them. 

This morning our school corporation met. We had a full 
meeting and a harmonious one. We agreed on rates of tuition 
and to go to work at once on the building. I heard this morning 
that George P. Copeland offered $50.00 annually to our orphan- 
age. Thank God. I also hear that the Williams place can be 



I 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 153 

bought for $3,000. It must be bought and that at once, for our 
orphanage. Thus God prospers us. Thank him! Thank him! 

November fifth. Florence came up a little while ago with a 
silver fifty cent piece which she has been saving a long while. 
She wants it bestowed upon the Orphanage. 

Nichols Holmes called to see me and informed me that he 
accepts the position of Principal of the High School. We are 
going to work at once upon the building. Oh, may God prosper 
this undertaking! Dr. Boozer has just called with the subscrip- 
tion list for our school. He is getting on finely. 

November ninth. I must begin shortly to stir around to get 
our Library Society subscriptions up for another year. This in- 
stitution, I am determined, shall become a power in our com- 
munity. I want it some day to have a local habitation as well as 
a name. 

By the way, I forgot to record the fact of world history that 
Grant is overwhelmingly elected. God means it for good and I 
believe it will result in good to us. 

November seventeenth. On Monday morning, Nov. 13th, I 
left home in company with Phinney for the meeting of Synod. 
We reached Newberry in good time and had a full car-load be- 
fore we reached Columbia. That night Synod was opened with 
100 delegates present. We had an interesting session. Dr. Girar- 
deau was present. On Friday morning I got an opportunity to 
help on the orphanage. I spoke before the Synod and they passed 
a resolution of commendation. I took dinner with Dr. Plumer 
on Friday. Spent nearly all my spare time with Ripley at the 
Seminary. I had a considerable quantity of conversation about 
the Orphanage. My return home was in the cold, dreadful cold. 
We have now some hope that the prosecution before the U. S. 
Court will be stopped. Oh, may God grant it. 

November tiventieth. Here is a notice of the Orphanage, all 
in German. Several papers have noticed it, among others the 
Central Presbyterian, the S. W. Presbyterian, the Phoenix, the 
Carolinian, Laurensville Herald, etc., etc. It may take five years 
but I believe we will finally accomplish it. The prospect, I trust, 
are brightening. The north preaches the Gospel of Peace toward 
the South. There is hope that our cases will be again postponed 
in court and, if so, then the next step will be a railroad, a tele- 
graph, a bank, a cotton market and a weekly paper. C^i^ton is 
bound to be a town yet. We are taking steps forward and our 
motto shall he caWed Nidhnn Gradu.<=! Retror-'^'itm. I love Clinton 
and have made up my mind here to live and die. These people need 



154 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

me and I need them. Oh, that I could be more faithful to them as 
a pastor. 

Today we observed the Assembly's day of Thanksgiving, 
humiliation and prayer. It becomes me, therefore, to pause and 
take a view of my condition. Personally I have great cause for 
thankfulness and especially for what God has enabled me to 
venture on this year. I have a dear, good wife that each year 
binds closer to me ; three children, healthy and happy ; a pleasant 
home for them, that is comfortable, my own and paid for, a good 
library and a monthly paper that brings me a great store of fresh 
reading. My church — well much about it saddens my heart. It is 
losing members rapidly from emigration, it is small and scattered 
but oh, how great the improvement, since first I took it, in true 
Christian life. I have taught it the meaaning of the word Pastor. 
I have trained it to benevolence, have brought up its children in 
the sabbath school and have maintained a prayer meeting. Some 
things that I have proposed have failed — our teacher's meeting, 
singing class, Bible class, etc. but this principally because of our 
thin population. This very year we have set on foot our library 
society and made arrangements for a High School, all of which 
will probably be effectuated. Then we have resolved on the Or- 
phanage and though it may take years to accomplish it, yet we 
have the inside track and a determined heart is much every way. 
For all these things I am profoundly grateful but Oh, my God, I 
pray for Jesus' sake, come to my rescue. I must, I will have thy 
help. Deny it not. Oh, blessed Jesus! How can I succeed in 
accomplishing the least thing unless thou help. My Lord, the Ark 
is thine. Save it or wreck it as befits thy glory. It is thy busi- 
ness, Lord, and if I go down in trying to do thy work, all the re- 
sponsibility is thine. Help or destroy; only let my Lord Jesus 
be honored. 

Sad news. Mrs. Hunter is dead. She has gone up to tes- 
tify concerning me to the Father. 

The Epizootic has reached Clinton, It seems we can share 
in the world's maladies if we share not in its properties. 

What a shame. I have to confess it, but it is true, a mem- 
ber of my church was present. I spoke to her and did not rec- 
ognize her. Thank God, that Jesus knows all his saints, every 
one. The horse disease is troubling me considerably. I can't 
visit in the country. 

Things are not working right in Clinton. The people are 
too slow and lazv. Our school building is not being repaired. 
Our teachers will .soon be here. The chapel is in a bad fix and we 
can't get it repaired. There is no life nor energy in the place. 
Rush Blakely has bought on the hill and will probably build a 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 155 

nice house. Dr. Irby has bought the Briggs house and will prob- 
ably build the old house into a good new one. There is some 
railroad talk and they have actually acquitted a case in the Ku 
Klux court in Columbia. All of which is favorable. On the other 
hand, there is a considerable inclination on the part of the young 
men to move west. 

I am now convinced that it will take a long time and great 
patience before our Orphanage is erected. But if it takes years 
it shall be done, God helping. 

December nineteenth. Ten days ago just as I had finished 
preaching to an attentive night audience, I received information 
that I was wanted as a witness in Columbia in the pending trials. 
Early Monday morning, I hastened to Columbia in company with 
Mr. Phinney and others. I made arrangements to lodge with 
Ripley at the Seminary and I must say that I had a pleasant time 
as far as the Seminary life went. I was confined very busily the 
entire week going to court, going to the hotel, to the Clinton 
headquarters ; but our men were not brought to trial until Friday 
morning. In the meantime I was occupied in several ways. I 
visited Woodruff in his room. He is now clerk of the Senate. I 
visited the menagerie now called the legislature. It was a vari- 
ously spotted affair, sure enough. I read through Bickerstett's 
grand poem, "Yesterday, Today and Forever." I read the book of 
Revelation in Greek. Got acquainted with many of the students, 
among them John Hull, Dabney, Hammond, Grafton, Hemphill, 
Thornwell, etc. all great names. I was also busy in getting up an 
act of incorporation for our church and Orphanage. On Friday, 
George Davidson, Dr. Craig, Elihu Young, Charlie Franklin and 
Buford were brought to trial. The jury, of whom J. Duncan 
Allen, formerly Senator from Barnwell is foreman, is made up 
of nine white men and three negroes. Judge Bond is on the 
bench, Corbin and Earle are prosecuting attorneys. The wit- 
nesses against our boys are the most outrageous villains that 
ever went unhung. A very strong display is made in behalf of 
our men. The best men of the district were summoned to testify 
as to the state of the country. But what will all this avail to 
help a prejudiced case. I was exceedingly busy all the while, 
noting down evidence. 

Sunday came. I spent sabbath morning at the Presbyterian 
Church where I heard Dr. J. R. Wilson. In the afternoon I 
found a few of our scattered sheep and we held a touching prayer 
meeting in one of the rooms of the Central Hotel. Al night I 
heard young Brother Grafton in the Methodist Church. 

Monday the trials continued. I was writing sixteen hours 
that day. This broke me down and I left for home Tuesday 



156 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

morning. At Newberry I was so fortunate as to get in with Dr. 
Simpson and Mr. Todd and so made my way home. I had hardly 
reached home before Mrs. Davidson and Mrs. Frankhn called in 
to inquire about their husbands. Poor women. Blessed little 
consolation I could give them. I could only point to the good 
Lord, who helps all his children. 

Just heard from Columbia that the jury are six against and 
six for conviction. Oh, My Lord, send help, I beseech. 

Dr. Irby is going to move into the Briggs house. Dr. Boozer 
into the Rose house, Dr. Copeland into the Copeland house and 
Jim Pearson into his house. Nickels Holmes will board at Phin- 
ney's. So our little town still gathers a few. God bless it. Crews 
told me that the railroad would be built. I am sure it will, if he 
undertakes it. The year is passed and w^e are no nearer to it 
than we were a year ago. It is wonderful to me that Clinton 
stands as well as it does. 

December tiventy -second. My heart is glad this morning. 
Day is breaking. God has shown himself a prayer hearing God. 
Our prisoners are all home. The trial resulted in a mistrial. 
The jury stood eleven for acquittal, one against. It is the gen- 
eral feeling that the days of peace are at hand. Oh, for a thank- 
ful heart! Oh, for a well-tuned voice. Great is God — Good is 
our Lord. I thank Him ! I thank Him. He is our God and 
there is no unrighteousness in Him. 

My little church is diminishing and I fear will continue to 
do so unless something is done for the revival of the town. There 
is room for work to be done here. 

Last night Mr. Bell received $6.60 from a lady in Monterey, 
111., for the Orphanage. God bless the donor. So little by little 
the money is coming in. In five years there will be enough on 
hand to enable us to begin. 

How the years roll round. I spend my thirtieth Christmas 
tomorrow. My life's work seems to have centered itself in this 
little town. Oh, for more faith. Oh, for the blessing of God. 
Oh, for peace in our times. 

December twenty-sixth. Christmas has come and gone and 
with it Christmas greetings. I have renewed my youth in the 
gayety of my babies. A beautiful mantle of deep snow shrouds 
the earth. 

I have labored in Clinton within a few months of nine years. 
I have diligently and industriously struggled to bring it up to a 
proper standard of devotion to Jesus. I have failed. Nowhere 
do I see fruit of my labors. All is going to ruin. I close this year 
with a wail. The ground is slipping beneath my feet. My hopes 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 



157 



are like this ice that for five days has sheathed the earth in glis- 
tening armor. It takes all my faith and courage to stand up on 
it. Where is my God? Mayhap he sees that I am laboring for 
myself, rather than for Him and therefore will not help me. Oh, 
my Lord Jesus, search my heart and recall me unto myself. I 
am very weak, O Lord. 

I received a letter from New York containing $5.00 for the 
Orphanage which I take as an omen to go forward and fear 
nothing. It came at a time of great depression. 

The Library Society has been organized. Steps have been 
taken to get under way the Clinton High School. Then our 
grand idea of getting up an Orphaanage here, has been born. 
This is progress, but the progress has been very slow indeed, so 
slow that it hardly deserves the name of progress. I ought to 
have mentioned Our Monthly. It has taken a firmer footing than 
ever and is, I trust, on the road to success. 

The coming year shall find me no whit less laborious than 
the year past. If the work prospers not, I shall still work. God 
knows. He will remember and reward. 

1873— Age 31 

Fraught with manifold uncertainties is the year 1873. Such 
portion of it as God giveth to me, I will give back to Him. 

Our little town is improving slowly. We are to have every 
house filled up. Dr. Boozer has moved over to Rose's. N. Pyles 
has bought out Harris. Dr. Irby is going into the Holland house. 
Blakely is going to marry and fire up generally. Jim Pearson is 
going to move in. The following will be a list of the families 
according to religion : 

Presbyterian: Mrs. Jones, W. P. Jacobs, R. S. Phinney, L. 
L. West, A. M. Copeland, J. T. Foster, Dolly Williams, Mrs. Pat- 
ton, Mrs. Compton, Mrs. Owens, R. R. Blakely, R. N. S. Young, 
Dr. Boozer, L. H. Little, E. T. Copeland, R. R. Williams, W. B. 
Bell, M. S. Bailey, J. S. Craig, P. Mountjoy, N. Pyles, E. H. 
Bourne, C. E. Franklin, N. A. Green, G. R. Davidson, G. C. 
Young, T. D. Newman, T. Y. Harris, Dr. W. C. Irby. 

Methodist: Mrs. Butler, Jim Pearson, T. Sloan, W. A. Mc- 
KelvT, A. Clark, C. M. Ferguson, W. J. Leak, N. S. Harris. 

BaptiM: W. A. Rose, Mrs. Garrett. 

Jew: A. Caspary. 

I am in hope that our little church and community is going 
to take a fresh start and do better than ever. The Orphanage 
will be built yet. 



158 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

January fourteenth. The Clinton High School opened yes- 
terday its first session, with forty-one scholars, an excellent be- 
ginning. It will run up to fifty today. I think we are going to 
have a full school. There is going to be some work done by the 
children of Clinton this year. So much for the first wave of suc- 
cess. The thing must be pushed on and on to its ultimatum until 
we have a beautiful school building and a successful school. Oh, 
that God would grant us as great success with the Orphanage, 
only more so. 

January fifteenth. It is difficult to row against wind and 
tide, yet such is my mission. Oh, my Lord, Jesus, send help. 

A conversation with George Copeland. He thinks the trials 
are over. 

January twenty-first. Last night we had a meeting of 
the Board of Visitors of the Thornwell Orphanage and agreed to 
purchase R. H. Williams' place or rather one hundred forty acres 
of it for which we are to give $1500.00. It will cost us hard work 
to raise this amount. It is really a beautiful location and now 
with all thankfulness do I acknowledge God's favor to us in this 
respect. He has opened a great door. He has selected the pretti- 
est place in Clinton; He has made a way for us to pay for it if 
we use proper endeavors. Oh, God, help us. Oh, Father, make 
us more prayerful, more earnest. Oh, give us faith. 

Mrs. Riley's little boy, three years old, Bickett, gave me a 
gold dollar for the home. Per Contra, Craig says, "It is a scheme 
to get some folks into office." Dorroh says it is a ''Chimaera." 
Pearson says, ''not one cent will I give." I find it difficult to 
write two sermons, visit twenty families, conduct five religious 
meetings, attend the school once a week, edit Our Monthly, write 
twenty-five letters, work for the Orphanage, spend one day in 
the school, labor for the Library Society and do the necessary 
amount of reading, all in one week. 

February fifth. On Monday night we organized the Board 
of Visitors of the Orphanage. We hope to be able to get posses- 
sion of the Orphanage tract at once and this will have to be paid 
for first and foremost. It will take at least $1500.00. After 
this, $5,000 to build with must be raised. 

Here is a list of the organized bodies now in existence in 
Clinton, besides schools and churches and Prayer meeting. The 
choir, weekly; The Grange, monthly; The Library Society, 
monthly; The Masonic Ix)dge, monthly; The High School Asso- 
ciation, quarterly ; The Board of Visitors of the Orphanage, 
monthly; The Society of Earnest Workers, semi-monthly; The 
Session meets semi-monthly. 



AGE TWENTY-NINE— 1872 159 

March fourth. Last night the young folks met at my house 
to sing and we had a real pleasant time of it. Several dollars 
received from Newberry for the Orphanage. Thank God for 
every cent He trusts me with. Oh, for the day when it will be 
furnished and the little orphans shall be collected from every- 
where to be fed and clothed. 

The prospects now are that there will be no trials at this 
term of court. If so we will have a pleasant meeting of Presby- 
tery. 

In life's journal I have come to the end of March and with 
it to the 9th anniversary of my coming to Clinton. Nine years 
ago, a young theologian, I set my foot in this town as its pros- 
pective pastor. Since then, much has been accomplished by God's 
blessing in this village. The town is almost thoroughly Presby- 
terianized. I believe I will set down here just what has been 
accomplished, that can never be undone. This, too, in the face 
of exceptional and disastrous difficulties — a tremendous war, to 
start with — a complete financial collapse — a fearful political rev- 
olution, the Ku Klux (so called) persecution, still continuing, and 
the death of the railroad. 

1st — The church has risen in members from 60 (w and c) 
to 150 (w and c). 

2nd — Instead of 8, there are 96 baptized infants on the roll. 

3rd— Instead of $100.00, the salary is $800.00. 

4th — Instead of an annual contribution of to benevolent 
causes, it is now three to four hundred dollars. 

5th — Where there was none, a sabbath school of 76 schol- 
are, 12 teachers, and 4 officers kept up for nine years. 

6th — A library of 800 volumes collected. 

7th — A prayer meeting originated and kept up for nine 
years. 

8th — Instead of services twice a month, it is now twice 
every sabbath. 

9th — Weekly contributions. 

10th — Great improvement in behavior and congregational 
singing. 

11th — Great improvement in the church building and 
grounds. 

12th — The orphanage projected. 

13th — Five praying elders where there were none. 

14th — Over a thousand sermons preached. Besides this: 

1 — Qur Monthhj 

2 — The Library Society 

3— The Clinton High School 



160 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I do not set this down in the way of boasting but to encour- 
age myself to future duties. I feel sometimes very much dis- 
couraged, but I still will push on. God has enabled me to do 
this much to show that there is work even for the weak, feeble 
churches and that country pastors, to whom He has called to ob- 
scure positions, and who should, therefore, stay there may cause 
their light to shine. Is it not my duty to remain here, despite all 
hindrances and discouragements so as to prove to the world this 
very thing? Of late I have become negligent of my duty, but in 
closing up this book and in beginning another, I trust that I may 
begin a life of more energy and self sacrifice, that the week may 
find me at work and each new week find the work pushed on. I 
trust that the mottos at the beginning of this book have not been 
mere breath; that I have pushed on and worked for God. As I 
began so I end, "Dirige vias mea^, Domino Jesus." 

From the workings of Brother B's church (in Chcirlestoyi — 
Editor) Sind from my conversation with him, I feel that mv own 
church is doing wrong in neglecting the poor to the extent that 
it now does. We ought to assist the few poor that we have and 
who find it difficult to get along. 

Monday and Tuesday I spent in visiting the college where I 
recalled thoughts of my younger days, the Orphan Asylum, where 
I stirred up thoughts for future days. 

Clinton — -I have here, my little home, which in time, I can 
make a real gem. I have my church wherein I love to preach, 
these dear people and a population that I can build up to noble 
endeavors. I will be patient and persevere. When the Orphan- 
age is built and the work has progressed in establishing thor- 
oughly our High School ; when the Library Society increases its 
endowment and the railroad is built, I would not live anywhere 
else. All the fault is in me. If I would visit more, work more, 
and preach better sermons, this would be an admirable place for 
me. 

I am going to adopt a different plan in my work. I intend 
visiting more from house to house and less from store to store. 

June twelfth. I heard yesterday that Dr. Buist is trying 
to throw cold water on The Orphanage, but God is on our side 
and that is a great deal better than Dr. Buist. 

June twenty-second. How soon I shall be cast down, I know 
not, but I feel like recounting here the mercies of God, although 
His mercies are more than I can count. First, I shall thank God 
for sending us $60.00 for the Orphanage last week, $42.00 of 
which was collected by Miss Lizzie Beasley who sent us $37.00 
on a former occasion. Oh, for many such workers, God bless and 



AGE THIRTY-ONE— 1873 161 

keep them. Second, I prayed yesterday as we had no ^ift for 
many days to send us a little by last night's mail. I got my mail, 
but no gift, and I said : God has failed me. But this morning at 
church a registered letter with $42.00 in it was handed me and 
my soul was glad. It came by last night's mail. Third, my sab- 
bath school numbered eighty-four today, larger than it has been 
for two years. Fourth, our service was attended by about. one 
huntlred and very attentive. Some were there who have been 
long absent. The contribution was larger than for months. 
Fifth, I gave my last piece of money to the Lord today, saying, "If 
the Lord thinks I need money he will give it." As I stepped out 
of church, five dollars was handed me. My soul is amazed at 
God's love and goodness. 

June twenty-seventh. God sent us $15.00 for the Orphan- 
age by last night's mail. Oh, how good he is, thus to continually 
remember us. Oh, my Father, please send us something before 
the month ends — enough at least to run our account over the 
$100.00 that we desire to get every month. 

July second. God moves in a mysterious way his wonders 
to perform. I prayed to him that as we only had $98.95 to report 
for June, to please send us $1.05 to make it up to a hundred, as 
we never wish to report less than $100.00. Saturday's mail 
brought us nothing and so we were sorely disappointed but see 
God's goodness. Yesterday I went down to get the book to pre- 
pare the receipts for acknowledgements, when to my joy I found 
that Mr. Phinney had rendered in $85.00 and that Mr. Bell had 
received by last night's mail $46.00, thus running up our receipts 
for June to $230.00 thus making a larger acknowledgement than 
ever before. I will distrust the Lord no longer. We have not a 
cent do^\Tl for July but our receipts will overrun $100.00 for I am 
going to pray for that amount. I am going to pray more earnest- 
ly for the salvation of souls and he will grant me them also. I 
know it. I believe it. I am sure of it. 

Jith/ ninth. Last night Mr. Glenn came down from Friend- 
ship. A hurried meeting of the Session and thirteen of the Dea- 
cons were called. Mr. Glenn asked for a permit for me to preach 
at Friendship. An earnest discussion followed. Many kind 
words were said but finally the session agreed that I could not go. 
We had asked for the Lord's guidance and God, I believe was in 
it. It was strange to me to see such earnest arguments as to my 
stay, coming from men whom three years ago, I had to t^e such 
pains to persuade to let me stay and preach in Clinton all my 
time. 

Every day of late has brought gifts for the Orphanage. God 



162 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

is blessing and will bless us. Oh, Father, if I have been found 
faithful in that which is least, thou wilt make me ruler over 
many cities. Therefore, Oh, Lord Jesus, make me more and 
more faithful. Strengthen my poor heart. Give me vast cour- 
age, give me a great heart. Cheer me — raise me — strengthen 
me — help me. What I cry for is the success of the Orphanage. 
Gk)d of the Fatherless prosper it. 

July eleventh. This morning about seven o'clock God put 
into my care another son. Oh, may I be faithful as a parent. 
Here is my great trouble. I am not fit to be a father. Every day 
I fail. Oh, God, send help to me, thy servant. 

July seventeenth. Last night very few ladies out but quite 
a fine turn-out of men. Brother Wells was there and seemed in- 
terested in Jonah. It was a hard question to discuss — this mat- 
ter of the whale, but I did the best I could. 

I delivered a third lecture on Phonography at the High 
School yesterday. Next Monday I will take a class regularly 
and also begin to lecture on Moral Philosophy. I do a great deal 
of gratuitous labor here, but I do it with an eye to my great 
work of elevating this people. My plan of an Orphanage is not 
only for the good it will do the orphans, but also to bring out 
and erercise the better qualities of the heart. The Library and 
the school I want to educate the one adults, the othe, youth. 
Our Monthly is to give the people of Clinton and all of Laurens 
a more earnest attachment to these institutions, especially the 
religious. From the pulpit I preach the gospel. In the S. S., I 
teach the gospel and so on and so on. 

But the most delightful feature of the day was the Young 
men's prayer-meeting at six o'clock. Beside Ripley and myself, 
there were present Sam West, William Bell, Mess Bailey, Rush 
Blakely, William D. Watts, Crane Jones, A. M. Copeland, Kit 
Young and Nick Holmes. George McCrary was absent in Union. 
I have heard all of these young men pray — Rush, Mr. Bell and 
Dock pleased me specially this evening. Oh, may God water this 
vine of his own planting. It is a grand thing for our church. 

July tfrenty-fifth. Last night we had a pleasant prayer 
meeting, about twenty-five present. Our prayer meetings have 
now become fixed institutions. I can remember when for a year 
at a time we would not have over twelve, now we seldom have 
under twenty-five. When the railroad begins to run, I expect this 
will double, that is, if we have anything of a railroad. 

July twenty-seventh. Yesterday I drew from the bank all 
of my funds with the intention of paying for the land on Monday. 



AGE THIRTY-ONE— 1873 163 

(About four moyiths thereafter the bank failed — Editor). I 
pray God to bring this business to a satisfactory termination. I 
prayed to God that our receipts for July might run over a hundred 
dollars. Up to last night the amount was $105.85. This is a full 
and complete answer to my prayer. Shall I ever doubt my God 
again. 

July twenty-ninth. At last it is done. Yesterday, after 
three or four hours, hemming and hawing we secured the Williams 
tract for the Orphanage, paying the sum of $1,575. $1200.00 of 
this was our own ; $375.00 was borrowed. We hope, however, to 
raise money to pay it back at once. I thank God that this much is 
accomplished. I will be still more thankful when the whole in- 
debtedness is fully met, and oh! how much more thankful when 
the building is erected, dedicated and occupied. 

I have received a great pleasure from God in having Father 
and Mother with me. It brings up my youth. It gives me a 
taste of new happiness. It renews the fountain of love. Father 
is hale and hearty, in fact seems as young as he was ten years ago. 
May his precious life be spared at least twenty years longer, for I 
look for him to live only about so long. {Twenty years later he 
died at the age of 86. — Editor) . 

August ninth. We had a painful and distressing accident 
yesterday. Joe Bailey, while working at his father's mill, had 
his left arm wrenched off at the shoulder, and his right ankle 
fearfully mangled. It pains and grieves us all beyond expression 
as much for the parents as for the poor lad himself. I fear he 
will die, and if he lives, he will be maimed and crippled for life. 

August tenth. Poor Joe! I feel deep sympathy and pity 
for him, but God I trust will make him one of his chosen little 
ones. I trust that this affliction will work out for him a far more 
exceeding and eternal weight of glory. I expect to visit him every 
day until he is out of danger. 

August tiventy-sixth. By slowly toiling this church will be 
built up. Was at the Y. M. P. M. but though few, it was full of 
the spirit. I also visited Brother Wells and Joe Bailey. 

Mr. Phinney has made the church more comfortable by put- 
ting rests under every pew^ for the feet. He did it at his own 
expense. I received a gift from Father of his Mineralogical Cab- 
inet. I prize it highly and at the earliest possible, will arrange 
it carefully. 

Small congregations and weak preaching today. Ordained 
Rush Blakely, Deacon. 

Mary and I have concluded to offer our house and ourselves 
to the Thornwell Orphanage. God only knows where this will 



164 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

lead to. This makes the way clear to opening the Orphanage 
immediately. I am anxious for the building of the Orphanage. 
Oh, my God, speed the day. 

I am laboring among the colored people, sowing seed that I 
hope to see someday grow into good harvests. The colored prayer 
meeting is doing well. They had thirty out last Tuesday night. 
At four P. M. we held our young men's prayer meeting. Eight 
were present. George Davidson joined. If he joins, then every 
young man, indeed every male member in the church should. I 
preached last night to a large crowd, about one hundred. 

I am here to show that even the weakest and feeblest church 
under the most untoward circumstances may be built up into a 
pillar of strength. Clinton is one of the smallest among the 
thousands of Judah. It was weak and poor in numbers when I 
came here. Without a praying member or a prayer meeting, or 
a collection for charitable purposes, contented with two services 
a month, with no sabbath school, in fact with only a name to live, 
it has yet grown in strength in the face of a long war and the Ku 
Klux persecution and the decline of the business and population 
of the town and the death of the railroad and the panic. Verily 
God has blessed the efforts that have been used here for his cause. 
My future as a pastor depends greatly on the prosperity of my 
people. I have labored and am laboring for their temporal as 
well as their spiritual advancement. 

I have and am and will labor for my people, physically and 
intellectually as well as spiritually. I am called to it. Others 
may not be. My mission is to make others work for the good of 
humanity and I will strive to do it. This is the reason of my 
interest in the educational enterprises — newspaper — schools and 
libraries that I have on foot. Oh, God, I feel that thou dost ap- 
prove my motives and I care more for thy approval than for the 
censure of my brethren. 

December second. Last night we held our regular Orphan- 
age meeting and made progress. After earnest discussion, it was 
resolved to build a house forty by sixty, of concrete. Mr. Phinney 
was appointed chairman of the buikling committee. The corner- 
stone is to be laid on the 28th of next May with grand honors. Oh, 
my Father in heaven, send success to this good undertaking. Un- 
less the Lord buikl the house, they labor in vain who buikl it. 

I had a pleasant ride with Mr. Bailey up to Rocky Spring 
last night to marry a couple. Mr. Bailey talks of putting up a 
good storehouse next year. With the orphanage and Boozer's 
house this makes three houses very probable to be erected in our 
little town. Mr. Bailey and I have cahooted to add $1200.00 to 
the improvement of our school building. I am determined to 



AGE THIRTY-ONE— 1873 165 

stand by our school and build it up, although Craig worries me. 

The bank in which we deposited for the Orphanage is broken 
but we lost nothing. This looks like a direct interposition of 
Providence in our behalf. 

December seventeenth. Yesterday we held our congregation- 
al meeting and organized the corporation of the church, under the 
charter I drew up for the church at the last meeting of the Legis- 
lature. Rush Blakely was elected first president of the corpora- 
tion, W. B. Bell, first treasurer. 

December twenty-ninth. Yesterday morning our Commit- 
tee to superintend the erection of the Orphanage met and or- 
ganized and proceeded to work. Mr. Phinney was elected Super- 
intendent of the building at a salary of $300.00. It was also de- 
termined to buy a horse and wagon to haul up material for the 
building, the same to be sold afterward, unless needed on the 
farm. We also laid off the site. Thank God for this much. We 
will now do our best to raise $3000. 

In looking back over the year I find that some things have 
been accomplished for the good of our town. Our High School 
has been opened and passed through its first years successfully. 
The Good Templars have been organized and made a decided im- 
pression upon our town. The Library Society has passed through 
its second year successfully. The young men's Prayer Meeting 
ha? been organized and increased in numbers. The Clinton De- 
bating Club has been organized and is doing good. The Ladies 
Society of Earnest Workers have been organized and have raised 
$76.00 for the Orphanage. The friends of the Orphanage have 
sent in $1600.00 for it; a tract of land of 130 acres purchased and 
a beginning made toward its erection. The Church charter has 
been adopted and the corporation organized. Our Monthljf has 
been successfully published through the entire year. The col- 
ored mission has been established and organized, a chapel pre- 
pared for it and its first salary (a mere pittance) paid. Our 
Sunday School has been reorganized, its lessons improved, its li- 
brary increased. Sixteen members have been added to the church. 
During the year I have made 413 pastoral visits, more than in 
any year of my life before, preached sixty times, more than I ever 
did in my life before, travelled fifteen hundred miles, baptized 
fifteen adults and fifteen infants and attended fifteen funerals — 
married twelve couples. God has blessed my labors, the church 
stands firmer than it ever did and the prospects are that we will 
go on, improving, during the year to be. 



CHAPTER TEN 

1874— Age 32 

Everything that I prayed for God's grace to help me in, one 
year ago, everything that I then set my resolution to do has by 
God's grace been accomplished. Now I shall venture again on 
thee, Oh, my Father, and I will beseech thy most gracious help to 
all my endeavors. 

January fifth. Last night we had a good meeting of the 
Board of Visitors of the Orphanage. We have selected a location, 
staked it off and directed the purchase of an ox-team for hauling 
rock. We think we can get enough hauled up to begin building 
soon. The great job is begun. Kit Young hauled the first load 
of rock. 

Janmtry tiventy -first. The establishment of Mrs. Winn's 
School here, in opposition to the High School pains me very much. 
I am sorry that we cannot have a united town. 

We got our yoke of oxen on Saturday night and will now go 
right on with the work. Oh, father, help my poor church. 

January tiveyity -eighth. The advance guard of the Grand 
Army has arrived. Forty-one Irish, English and Scotch immi- 
grants arrived last night. This is the beginning of the end and a 
grand event in the history of Clinton. The stream has started 
this way. Now is the time of our deliverance at hand. Half of 
them will turn out to be worthless but the other half will make 
good citizens. They are mostly Catholic. They must be protes- 
tantized. It has been my good fortune to have protestantized 
two Catholic emigrants, the only two that ever came here. Some 
thirty or more of them will be in my bounds. I must show them 
kindness and seek to win their hearts. We have engaged two 
of them to work on the Orphanage, one a teamster and the other 
a mason. Other emigrants have been ordered and are on the way. 

I received $2.00 from Dr. Dorrah for the Orphanage yester- 
day and it made me glad. Oh, my Father, help this precious 
work of mine, my life work, the one thing in which my heart de- 
lights. I do believe our railroad will be built yet. The leaven 
works. 

We are now at work sure enough on the Orphanage. We 
have begun to haul up material. Every day I go up to note prog- 

166 



AGE THIRTY-TWO— 1874 167 

ress. We have funds enough to carry us on tolerably well for 
four months. Then we will have to get several thousands of 
dollars. Oh, my heavenly Father, help thy poor servant in this 
great undertaking. My church has pledged me $800.00 during 
the coming year which is an improvement over the $750.00 of 
last year. Our High School is doing finely. Everybody seems 
pleased with our new teachers, even more so than last year. \'Oiir 
MonthUf for February is getting on very well. 

February twentieth. Last night for the first time in my life, 
I married two couples at one time, Jno. Blackwell and Janie Cope- 
land, Callie Copeland and Lizzie Young. Three of them are mem- 
bers of my church. I married them in our church and a large 
number were present to witness the spectacle. May God bless 
the couples and give them a happy life. Our town is getting 
ready for the laying of the cornerstone by repairing its old fences 
and fixing up generally. The work on the Orphanage is progress- 
ing slowly. 

Our High School is doing well. Three good teachers and 
fifty scholars. Miss Winn also has a good school. 

February twenty-fifth. I walked out yesterday to the place 
where we are going to build the Orphanage as I do almost every 
day. Tim has hauled 125 large foundation rock, which is about 
one-fourth of what is needed for the foundation. It will take Tim 
about one month more to split out all of the balance of the rock 
that will be needed. Mr. Bailey's house progresses. 

February twenty-sixth. Blessed and rich God, give us what 
we need of money. Our faith must not give out. But must it 
not be accomplished with work? I feel as if Clinton ought to do 
more and until it does more, we cannot expect God's blessing. 

February twenty-eighth. We met the other day and hauled 
up nearly all the rock that was needed for the foundation — all 
that were split. Oh, God, send help to our beloved institution. 

Last night we had an earnest and rather disorderly meeting 
of our Board of Visitors. At its close Brother Phinney took me 
one side to tell me not to be so earnest in advocating my views or 
I would ruin my usefulness as a minister. Lord help me to learn 
even from those who teach out of contrariness. The Board voted 
to sell the oxen for half price and buy a mule this with about 
$130.00 in the treasury. I was and am bitterly opposed to so 
squandering money and I was in dreadful earnest to puf a stop 
to anything like extravagance. But my brethren of the Board 
have carried it against me in nearly every measure I advocate. 



168 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Right here I want to set down my gratitude to God for his 
goodness in sending us fifty dollars from one source. At the be- 
ginning of the month I had prayed earnestly for $100.00. We 
ran up easily to fifty and then came to a dead halt for three 
weeks. I was greatly discouraged and ready to faint. I had put 
much stress upon my prayer and it seemed ready to fail. I went 
down to make up the returns for the month and by the very last 
mail and at the very last moment came this $50.00 and so the 
hundred and over was in hand. This is God's doings and it is 
marvelous in my eyes. Oh, my father, I pray thee greatly in- 
crease my faith that I may plead for much. I have asked for 
$200.00 during March. 

March tenth. I am again deeply interested in Astronomy, 
but what profits it for I am unable to buy the books I need to 
prosecute my studies therein. I feel much hampered by the 
want of a hundred or two dollars for books. 

On page one twenty-nine of this journal is recorded my pray- 
er for $200.00 for the Orphanage during March and today, March 
30th, the treasurer entered the two hundredth dollar upon his 
books. Lord, I do feel grateful for thy answer to my prayer and 
now this day, because I feel it needful to thy success of our cause, 
I plead for $300.00 during the month of April, my blessed Lord, 
I am unworthy but Oh, give it to us. And this shall satisfy my 
heart, that we are right in endeavoring to build a house forty by 
sixty. 

The weather has turned off to be unfit for ploughing and 
whenever this happens, we do our best to get a job of hauling 
done for the Orphanage. It will be a day full of grand satis- 
faction to me, when the last nail is struck and the building fin- 
ished, ready for opening. God grant that it may go prosperously 
on to completion. I love my dear little town and the orphanage 
will endear it to me a thousand fold. I revised my easy question- 
book today and hope that I have made it better every way. This 
is the only little book that I have ever published. Two editions 
have been exhausted. 

April first. April comes in with a lap-full of flowers and 
showers. Ripley came up from Columbia, yesterday quite unex- 
pectedly to pay us a little visit. We raised a shelter on the Or- 
phanage ground for our workmen and I was the first sheltered 
under it from a shower of rain. 

April fifth. Brother Ripley is with me preaching during my 
communion. Our workmen hammering away at the stone makes 
our Orphanage ground look more lively. Oh, blessed Father, 
send me funds to complete the work I love. 



AGE THIRTY-TWO— 1874 169 

Steps are being taken towards rebuilding the Laurens rail- 
road, set on foot by three of my members. God prosper it. To- 
day we broke ground for the Orphanage towards laying the 
foundation. 

May 7iitith. We have just closed the exercises of our tenth 
anniversary. Ten years ago God permitted me to organize the 
Sunday School on the day on which I took charge of the church. 
Ten long years have I been with these dear people I do love. I 
have grown to loving them and yet my heart is sad. I do not feel 
as if I was deeply wedded to them now. I do not see my influence 
growing. In my heart I feel as if something was needed. They 
show me a few tokens of affection. They never praise me. They 
do not seem to be much interested in me. This is when I probe 
it to the bottom, the true cause of my discouragement. 

Mcu/ thirteenth. I am having some work done on my house. 
It is being painted by Mr. Scott who kindly gives his work. I 
have just returned from the Orphanage farm; the work is going 
on as well as we are able. I am carrying on a little work in the 
way of farming and the farm is doing splendidly. It is a good 
farm. 

•^01/ fifteenth. The work on the foundation of the orphan- 
age was finished yesterday and the erection of its walls began 
today. $49.00 received last night. Thank God. 

Mail twenty-fourth. The hopes for the railroad are bright 
and buoyant, but I will not allow myself even to hope for fear of 
disappointment. We now propose to give the contract for build- 
ing the Orphanage to Mr. Bell. He offers to complete it for six 
thousand dollars. 

At last the cornerstone of the Orphanage was laid. Today, 
the 28th of May, saw a great day in the history of our town. At 
an early time the town was filled with carriages, buggies and 
people. The Good Templars were out in force. The Masonic 
Fraternity, presided over by Col. Ball numbered over a hundred. 
The ceremonies occupied but a short time. Then the stone was 
put in place. Among other things it contains my photograph. 
Then came the dinner. It was much more successful than I had 
anticipated. The proceeds (gross) will amount to at least 
$300.00, about $50.00 more received from kind friends on the 
ground. One thing only makes me sad and that is that this good 
cause had opponents and enemies who did all they could but how 
ineffectualh', to injure our good name and our recerpts. And 
members of my own church, one or two only, but among these 
some that I loved were of this opposition. I feel sorry that one 
of my friends was into it, but on the other hand how many showed 
true colors todav. God bless and reward them. 



170 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

May t IV enty -ninth. Last night we met in extra session and 
agreed to give Mr. Bell the contract for building the Orphanage 
for $6,000. This is the best contract we have ever made and one 
that fills me with a restful spirit as I contemplate it. 

The tiv enty -eighth was the tenth anniversary of my ordina- 
tion as Pastor of the Clinton Church. I feel very grateful to God 
that he honored it with such a ceremony. 

It is now nearly three years since I first thought of the Or- 
phanage. What hath God wrought ! 

Last night we met and ratified the contract with Mr. Bell. 
Now, my heart, Holy Father, in mercy help us. Send us what 
is needful to build this house. May he be with us. 

I ought here to record that a war is being carried on by the 
bar-keepers against my church. Their daily occupation is to go 
round from one part of the town to the other, cursing the Presby- 
terians. They are doing their best to cause a breach, and thank 
God, they will succeed. I have long hoped and looked for the 
time when a line, clear and distinct, should be drawn between the 
Presbyterians and the world. These bar-keepers are bringing 
it about, their secret wrath being kindled by our zeal in the cause 
of Temperance. 

Mr. Phinney is arranging a library case for our S. S. Library 
in the Lecture room to which we are going to move our Sunday 
School. We now have one thousand volumes in our Sunday School 
Library. It is the largest Sunday School Library in the Presby- 
tery. 

I have at last set my heart on a plan, the complete fulfillment 
of which I desire to commemorate my twentieth anniversary at 
Clinton. . It is nothing more nor less than the establishment of 
a Male College at Clinton. The thing can be done and although 
I state it in this cool way, as though it were a mere bagatelle, yet 
when Clinton College is a final fact, as it will be in ten years from 
now, if God spares me and prospers me, this cool way of speaking 
will be justified. It will take a vast outlay of time and money 
but it can be done and, God willing, it shall be done. For the 
present I can only digest plans, for all my efforts at money rais- 
ing must go to the Orphanage. Nor do I expect to do much toward 
even broaching the subject of the college until the Orphanage is 
built. 

I have been thus explicit because I have hereby resolved to 
establish a college in the town of Clinton ; as well as other insti- 
tutions. I do it for the glory of God and to show that a poor 
country pastor, living in the least of villages can, if he will, do 
great things, for God. For this cause I remain in Clinton, and 



AGE THIRTY-TWO— 1874 171 

to this end will I labor. So help me God and keep me steadfast 
to this purpose. 

The opposition tried to get up a dancing party last night and 
signally failed. Thank God. 

All my efforts to build up a colored church have come to a 
dead failure. I intend giving up the attempt finally and leave the 
field clear to the northern church. My members have all gone 
over to the Northern Presbyterian Church. I have been laboring 
faithfully but unsuccessfully. The labor, preaching three times 
a day is greater than I can bear and I shall encourage the new or- 
ganization to my utmost. 

Brother McKittrick is dead. His daughter Minnie, will be 
taken under the care of the Orphanage. 

The work on the Orphanage has stopped for the present as 
Mr. Bell's hands have all run away. 

September twenty-sixtli. I had a very pleasant evening last 
Thursday at the High School. Our young folks dramatized for 
us "Ten Nights in a Bar Room." The thing was very well re- 
ceived and executed. Quite a good audience rewarded them for 
their trouble. They cleared $42.00 which was donated to the 
Orphanage. We have received this month, thus far $135.00. 
Thank God. Mr. Bell's hands have returned and the work prog- 
resses slowly on the Orphanage. They have just completed the 
walls of the first story. 

I have selected long since for my guide and hope the words 
on the title page of this Journal. I feel sure that with God's 
blessing that if I patiently labor and patiently wait, my work for 
the Orphanage shall see the sun. Yes, and all the other work 
that I do for God's glory. Keep at it, keep at it. Never give up. 
Be found trying, die trying. These are the words that shall ani- 
mate me in carrying out those plans that are for the good for 
which I labor. Oh, Lord, held me. 

November tenth. Mary still continues too unwell for me to 
do any work, either indoors or out. I am laboring faithfully, 
the, nursing her, taking care of the children and attending to do- 
mestic economies. I am improving my front yard, adding to its 
floral beauty. Have also been getting my orchard into shape 
and setting out trees in my backyard. I spend a little time every 
day attending to decorations and I do it so as to train my chil- 
dren to love these things and to set a good example to my parish- 
ioners. The north wall of the Orphanage is built up clear to the 
top, thank God. blessed Savior, send money enough ^nd as we 
need it to pay for this structure. Send it speedily. Dear Lord, 
what is $3500.00 to thee and that is all we want for the present 
necessitv. 



172 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

December second. I have just returned from a flying visit 
to Cokesbury. Went over Monday, returned via Laurens Tues- 
day (yesterday). I went to spy out the land for Father. He is 
thinking of taking charge of the institution known as the Masonic 
Female College. Improvements progressing in Clinton. Mr. Bell 
is to put up a store (of brick) ; Mr. Riddle, a good carpenter, has 
moved into town. I am sorry we are going to lose Mrs. Owens 
and Mrs. Compton. The Orphanage walls are nearly done. 

Deceynher sixth. My soul is greatly rejoiced and magnifies 
the Lord. We received last night a donation of a railroad bond 
for $500.00 from Mrs. Kitty Williams of Greenville, S. C. Blessed 
be the name of the dear God. Oh, how rejoiced am I for this 
proof of God's love to the Orphanage. We propose to keep it as 
the beginning of our endowment fund. We learned also that the 
railroad will now be surely built. 

I feel happier in my work, with advancing prospects of use- 
fulness. A good deal of hope exists that work will begin on our 
railroad. If so, then we will take a new lease on life. I see every 
day the necessity of a live railroad to make my town and church 
live. Oh God, give me a courageous heart and help me to do the 
things that I ought to do this month for Jesus. Wrote a sermon 
this morning, took Mary out riding this afternoon and expect to 
ride out five miles to marry a couple this evening. 

December tivelfth. I am still sadly hindered from my work 
by Mary's sickness. Poor, dear wife, she is having a hard, hard 
time of it. I do not know but what it makes me love her better, 
though. 

December fifteenth. The prospects for the railroad are daily 
brightening. I have been so sadly disappointed annually on this 
subject for five years that I fear to have hope. We may never get 
our railroad but I must confess that everything is auspicious 
now. It is certain that the railroad, if built, will tend wonder- 
fully to brighten up our little town. In fact the hope of it is 
doing so already. The influence on my church will be correspond- 
ingly felt and then if I am the man for the place, our church and 
town will become a strong-hold of Presbyterianism in these parts. 

1875 

Jayiuani second. The New Year came in with the ground 
all snow-covered. I began my year's work and trust that this 
year will be an effective one. I was quite unwell, though, and 
couldn't do much. Mary is improving, too, and that gives me a 
courageous heart. 



AGE THIRTY-THREE— 1875 173 

Januarii fifth. We held also a meeting of the Board of Vis- 
itors of the Orphanage. Resolved to open the institution on 
October first if possible. I think it will be opened on that day. 

Janmirii fifteenth. Father leaves Florida next week for 
South Carolina. He and I and Ripley will all belong to the same 
Presbytery. I am glad at this. My church has paid me about 
$600.00 of my salary. I must now go down and try to straighten 
out the balance. Clinton has fine prospects ahead of it. The 
work on our railroad has begun. 

January tiventji-fifth. We had quite a misfortune to happen 
to the Orphanage on Saturday. Part of the front wall had to be 
taken down. It was put up by the contractor with sand instead 
of mortar. I regret it greatly both on their account and ours. 

Januarii twentij -sixth. It is ten years ago today since our 
betrothal, Mary and I. All that time a good God has watched 
over us. We are nearer together than we ever were before. 

January twenty-eighth. I received a letter yesterday telling 
me that Brother Ferdie was dead! I have not seen him since I 
was seventeen years old, but this news moved me strongly. Mr. 
Bell is getting along finely with his work in replacing the con- 
demned wall in the Orphanage. 

Father is at Cokesbury. I got a letter from him yesterday. 
I must go over to see him next week. It seems to me as if I 
had scarcely time to think. My hands are just as full as they can 
be. Yesterday, the last stone was laid in the walls of the Thorn- 
well Orphanage and the workmen called off. 

I wrote an article some time ago for the A. T. Society, N. Y., 
and received a few days since $5.00 for it. I like that. 

March seventh. I have a thought on the anvil. Why could 
we not have a college in Clinton in which the sexes could be edu- 
cated together after the plan of some of the northern institu- 
tions. Let it grow out of our High School. I also propose that 
this shall be my food for thought for the coming year. The work 
on the Orphanage has re-commenced. The roof will probably be 
on during this month. 

About Our Monthly. I began about two years ago with ab- 
solutely no capital, not one cent to print. By borrowing and 
paying back I have been able to keep up Our Monthly for these 
years, improving it constantly. I have succeeded in getting up 
our office, worth about S350.00 out of the proceeds of it.* I think 
now is the time to push and I am therefore determined not to 
back down but do better. If I can get a lad to print, I will here- 
after write a greater portion of Our Monthly myself. Will print 



174 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

my sermons (not as sermons but as articles). I propose also to 
buy a thoroughly good press and to secure if possible the Presby- 
terian and other printing. With the railroad I think there will 
be much work to do here. I am thus inclined, not to make money 
but to get it in order that I may educate my children and travel 
in Europe. I feel very sure that the Clinton Church will never 
be able to do this for me and yet the Orphanage binds me for- 
evermore to Clinton. As I intend to make Our Monthly wholly 
religious, it also will be a pulpit. My heavenly Father, I feel that 
I can ask thy blessing on this plan. 

March twenty- first. Yesterday I engaged Ike Bourne to 
work in the printing office. I intend trying my uttermost to 
carry out my plans of the 12th instant. 

The lions of Clinton are not many. We show visitors the 
Orphanage, our Cemetery and church, Mr. Phinney's bees, the 
steam mills and the High School. The first brush of paint was 
laid on the Orphanage today. And so the month ends. I am not 
satisfied with my work this month, but then I never am satisfied 
with any month's work. 

May second. This morning I had eighty at Sunday School 
and a collection of $1.50. About one hundred at church. Col- 
lection $3.33. I feel that my people are doing better. The chil- 
dren have collected $10.82 for the Sunday School Library. Not 
very much but the times are very hard. I got out Our Monthly 
for May yesterday. I begin to see and often learn that it is doing 
good. But ought I not to spend more time studying. I do much 
work but I am inclined to think too little study. 

Monday, in company with sister, Mr. Terrell and Miss Mamie 
Allen, I visited Washington city and the day was thoroughly oc- 
cupied in sight seeing. I visited the Capitol, the Patent Office, 
where I met Cousin John Jacobs, the government Printing Office 
where I met Uncle Augustus, the Treasury building, the Smith- 
sonian and the Agricultural Department. All of these I have 
described in a series of letters to Our Monthly and so omit here. 
That night I spent a pleasant evening with Aunt Caroline and 
Cousin Bettie. 

Beside the Orphanage we have several buildings to be put up 
this fall and several new stores to be opened. I am glad to record 
that we had ninety-one present at Sabbath School this morning. 
This is larger than we have had present at one time since 1865, 
eleven years. The School numbers 110, a larger number than for 
years back, in fact since our first year. And then we enrolled 
numbers who were really not "learners"; forty were in the Bible 
class, for instance. I am greatly encouraged about Clinton and 
about the church, if God would only revive us. 



AGE THIRTY-THREE— 1875 175 

I am filled with hope for the Orphanage. The Union Church, 
Charleston, agree to furnish one room, Aveleigh a second and 
Clinton a third. We think we will get all the rooms furnished. 
The plan of giving a room to each church works. When we get 
underway I think we can get many churches to undertake the 
support of a child each. Then I am encouraged about the town. 
Four new brick store buildings will be built this fall. There 
were only three buildings in Clinton when I came, of more sub- 
stantial material than wood, there are only five now. I think that 
will be doubled this year, especially if the Masons build as they 
propose. 

Jul II third. Under consideration, the establishment of a 
Boys' High School to be eventually worked up into a college. This 
is a grand idea and will require time. 

Oh Lord, this past is forever gone from me. It is now and 
ever shall be beneath thy scrutiny. Lord, look not too closely at 
it. Its flimsiness, its idleness, its selfishness. Thou knowest but 
Oh, God. publish it not in the heights of heaven. If there be good 
in it, thine is the glory. If evil, mine the fault and the suffering 
rests upon my Savior. Lord, I close these months today. How 
many more I shall be allowanced, I know not. Thou knowest. 
Measure my strength according to their number and give me to 
do each day according to each day's full ability. So shall thy 
name be honored and the weight of my Savior's sorrows lightened. 
Lord I am thine — Fresh days shall bring fresh consecration. I 
am thine now. My soul's impassioned longing is to be thine for- 
ever ! And forever and forever. 

Our meeting of the Orphanage Board was encouraging and 
much business was done. We elected Mrs. Thornwell matron 
and it is my earnest hope that she may accept the position. We 
will need great grace to enable us to accomplish what is before 
us in the establishment of the Orphanage. 

Juhj nineteenth. I preached today Emma McCrary's funer- 
al. It was well attended and I think I did good. The services 
were solemn and affecting. Many tears were shed. We elected 
Mrs. McBride Matron and accepted three orphan children for the 
Orphanage. I have just returned from an exceedingly interesting 
trip to Laurensville. I had the pleasure of seeing the young peo- 
ple of that city out in force in the college chapel where certain 
charades were acted. I also had the presidency of the college 
offered to me which I of course declined. My talent lits not in 
that direction. My work is to do my Father's will here. 

July thirtieth. There is a strong and organized opposition 
against mv church on the point of the Infirlpl spntimnnt of the 



176 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

town. If there were not so much lukewarmness among Chris- 
tions and so much enmity to Christ among the unconcerned, it 
would amount to nothing, still the meeting of our brotherhood 
this morning convinces me that there is life enough in the church 
to meet and defeat it. What we have aimed to do is to overwhelm 
the town with a Christian influence. We claim the town as ours 
not to the exclusion of other Christians but to the exclusion of 
the world and the devil. This is opposed by the w^orld and the 
devil. My own church is arousing to duty. That I clearly see. 

August ninth. On the ninth I drove down to Kinards and 
met father on the Laurens railroad. The next day was his sixty- 
seventh birthday. On the 11th with Mess Bailey I drove out to 
Mr. Joseph Abrams, an old bed-ridden man, seventy-three years 
of age and received him into the church. For the next afternoon 
I drove with father to Laurens where we had a delightful con- 
ference of the Elders and Deacons of the church in our county. 
It is proposed to recall father to the college. I hope it will be 
done and that I will have father near me once more. Ever since 
the war the college has been in a deplorable condition but I be- 
lieve father can revive it. We returned home on the 14th and 
father preached to a slim audience for me at night. 

August tiventy -seventh. I received a letter yesterday from 
Mr. W. S. Lee and from it I am now sure of him as our teacher 
for the coming year. He is a successful teacher and I believe 
will build up a first class school for us. It is a matter for great 
rejoicing to me that, he is secured. 

September second. The difficulties about the railroad is set- 
tled and we may now look for the cars by October twenty-first. 

September fifth. We are disappointed in getting Mrs. Phil- 
son to take charge of the Orphanage. O Lord, instruct me whither 
to turn for help. Thou alone knowest and thou canst help. 

The talk of the week was the attempted assassination of Joe 
Crews. Was there ever a man so hated in Laurens County as he ! 
He has been its terror. Now that he lies at the point of death 
there are none who wish his recovery. Yet after visiting him I 
could not repress a feeling of sympathy even for him. My breth- 
ren are very anxious for me to take charge of the Orphanage. I 
will do so. Perhaps this is the best. It seems to be God's will. 
It will give me several pangs of heart to give up my pleasant little 
home every corner of which is consecrated — my Mowers and trees, 
phmted by my own hands, and go to this self-sacrificing work in 
a public institution. But the will and hand of God is in it. I 
have no choice but to do it. 



AGE THIRTY-THREE— 1875 177 

At last we are fully committed. My life changes after Octo- 
ber first. Our shell of selfishness will have to be broken. I accept, 
but to give up this quiet little home will be a great burden — a sore 
trial. Oh, Lord, I have been too selfish. Make me henceforth to 
take sweet comfort in the work that I will have in hand. Fit me 
for it. And Lord, if it is to be the outward work of this poor life, 
bless me and it. Grant that it may not drag heavily on my hands. 
Make it a success and a jov. I propose this if the Lord will: 

1 — To take twelve children ; no more 

2 — To pay our debt 

3 — To make an effort to raise $25,000 endowment. 

4— After $10,000 is raised, to take one child for each $1,000 
contributed till we reach twenty-five children. After that I have 
no further plans. 

I am sadly discouraged. Lord, give me strength. One of 
my friends told me the other day that I am the hardest discour- 
aged of anybody he knew. Alas, I am always discouraged. But 
I talk and act the other way. That is the only way to do any- 
thing. I am very weak but it would not do to let others find it 
out. 

October. Here am I in the Orphanage. My little household 
has grown considerably. The Orphanage is opened. My study 
is beautifully arranged. Mary's sewing room is near by. The 
house is prettv well furnished. Ten little orphan children are 
here. Several more have applied. A little money is needed for 
little things — a great deal for great things. As to the day of 
opening, my mind is all in a whirl about that for I was very much 
unwell. We had several hundred present, a good and successful 
dinner, an afterday exercise, a dramatic exhibition at night. Sab- 
bath father preached a splendid morning sermon for me, and 
Brother James H. Thornwell, a good night sermon. We had good 
audiences, a pleasant communion, a fine sabbath school. And now 
the work before us begins to show itself. We have a debt of 
nearly $2,000 to pay. We have salaries to pay and children to 
feed. It is a great work and it must be done. Oh, my Lord, 
help me. We have engaged Miss Emma Witherspoon as our 
teacher. We have made arrangements for cook, etc. In a week 
from now we will have everything in perfect trim. I shall go to 
work at the Printing Office immediatelv and trv to make Our 
Monthly a considerable success. And so I am in the Orphanage. 
I can hardly realize it. It seems all a dream. 

October eighth. We are getting well organized for work at 
last. Our school is in running order; the Printing Office is on 
its legs ; the pantry is on its first bottom. I would gladly welcome 
a few more orphan children, if provisions would hold out. 



178 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

October thirteenth. It looks as if God had done it on pur- 
pose to cheer me. Here is a letter from Miss Kitty Williams in- 
forming me of the donation of $1,000 to an endowment fund for 
the Orphanage. Gratefully I accept it. I rejoice in this new 
manifestation of God's love. $1,000! Our proceeds now are as 
follows : 

One tract of land $ 1,600.00 

Increase of same in value 700.00 

DwelHng 5,200.00 

Endowment 1,500.00 

Furniture 500.00 

Out buildings and improvements . . . '350.00 

$10,050.00 
By . indebtedness 1,900.00 



$ 8,150.00 

We have over $10,000 worth of property and nearly $2,000 
worth of debt. And this debt will, I think, be fully paid by Christ- 
mas. 

Oh, Lord, help us to pay off Mr. Bell by Christmas ! 

October twentieth. I ought to have given a list of the dear 
children gathered into the Orphanage. Our first family — girls, 
Mattie Clark, Flora Pitts, Ella Entriken, Fannie and Annie Ag- 
new. Boys — Walter Entriken, Jimmie and Dannie Boozer, Al- 
fred and Johnnie Agnew. Oh, Lord, help send in money to pay 
our indebtedness, to enable us to build and to assist us in sup- 
porting these children. I am pleased with my work in the Or- 
phanage. I propose now to give up Bethany and to devote my- 
self wholly to Clinton and its duties. 

Oh, my heavenly Father, grant me the satisfaction of seeing 
this house an'd land, etc., paid for before the first of January. 
Dear Lord, grant this for Jesus' sake. It is greatly needed in 
the proper work of the Orphanage and thou hast always given 
me what was needed. Hear my prayer for Jesus' sake. 

T to enty -ninth. I have just been very greatly encouraged by 
receiving a very nice donation of tools for the boys to work with — 
from James E. Adger and Company simply because I asked them. 
May God bless them and raise us up many such friends. 

November first. On the first instant Ripley and myself left 
in private convevance for Yorkville. The sixty mile ride was a 
pleasant enough one. We stopped over night with an old man 
named Burgess on the banks of Broad River and the next after- 
noon drove into Yorkville. 



AGE THIRTY-THREE— 1875 179 

Father organized this church and was its first pastor. I 
visited Mr. Adiker, whose wife knew my mother and used to 
fondle me. 

On my return I found that no work was going on on the Or- 
phanage premises. Mr. Bell gone to the fair and the fences un- 
built. 

We have $1500.00 of debt to pay. We have $25,000 endow- 
ment to raise. We have twelve children to support. I can do 
none of this without the divine help. Oh my Lord, for Christ's 
sake, help me. 

December seventh. We had a very unsatisfactory meeting of 
the Board. Oh! my Lord, help me. These children must be fed 
and cared for. And unless thou dost help we are lost. Oh ! give 
me strengtth. 

What with the discipline of the Orphanage — its necessary 
work — its support and endowment — my church, my sabbath 
school — studies and preparation — Our Monthly — job work in ad- 
dition — the new start for the Library Society — the preparation 
for opening the High School — multifarious correspondence — re- 
joicing over the railroad — stirring up public spirit about this and 
that, I am half crazy. Oh Lord, give me strength. And now a 
new idea. A young Men's Christian Association for Clinton. 
Shall I do it? 

Fourteenth. I rejoice to write down that yesterday the Lau- 
rens train ran up into the heart of the town of Clinton. 

The Orphanage. I am making every effort to make it self- 
supporting. I have dismissed all servants. I shall try to carry 
on a small farm. The school work shall be mainly in the after- 
noon. The girls must be taught sewing, ironing, housework and 
cooking. The boys must learn to farm, to print, to carpenter and 
to make shoes. I shall try to make the school a success. Oh for 
ideas ! 

Miss Emma Witherspoon who is our teacher in the Orphan- 
age is a grand-daughter of the celebrated Dr. Witherspoon, signer 
of the Declaration of Independence. 

I am readinji, with great interest Palmer's life of Thornwell. 
The name that I have given to this Orphanage is a sufficient tes- 
timony to the esteem of my soul for this great man. I thank God 
that he was both instructor and friend. Dr. Palmer was my 
tutor for two years. I say tutor for I was his sole pupil in the 
Senior class. I loved him truly and enjo\' much this work of his 
which shall be a choice treasure in my library. I have just com- 
pleted Thornwell's third volume. 



CHAPTER ELEVEN 

1876— Age 34 

Yesterday, Courtney Wilson was received into the Orphan- 
age. I will make a printer out of him. 

January tivelfth. Mr. Scott came in last night loaded down 
with provisions for the Orphanage as the result of his begging 
expedition. This success on his part is in direct answer to prayer, 
I do believe. I prayed the Lord to assist me in getting a faithful 
assistant. I also prayed to him to make the contributions with 
a special reference to the provision department and telling him 
that I would look upon this as a direct proof of his interposition 
to answer prayer. It looks as if God intended to answer prayer 
for my help. 

January thirteenth. Uncle States has come to town and will 
open the High School next Monday. He is a considerable acqui- 
sition to this place as the people will soon discover. He is going 
to be my right hand man, I see. 

February eighth. Today, Miss Lee and Miss Lowry both ar- 
rived on the train. They are our teachers in the High School. I 
am truly glad that the High School is now thoroughly organized 
again. Its fourth year has opened propitiously and I am very 
glad. I am grateful too for a message just received from the 
second church, Charleston, that they will take charge of one of 
our children. Oh ! how easy to get up the support of our Orphan- 
age, if we were free from debt. Enough has been received since 
October first to have carried us through the year had it not been 
for our debt. But thank God, each month diminishes that. Oh 
my precious helper — come to me and lift this burden and it shall 
be my last debt. In my own private business I am truly glad to 
say that I am slowly freeing myself from incumbrance. I be- 
lieve that another year will see me safely through. I have had 
my heart turned toward the Library Society. It must be strength- 
ened and brought to a higher point of usefulness. I propose to 
make it my hobby after a while, build for it, make a reading room 
and create it into a means of elevating and refining our little 
village. Dear Lord show me how and help me. 

February fourteenth. I have ordered a neat little job press, 

180 



AGE THIRTY-FOUR— 1876 181 

with which I propose to do much toward the support of the Or- 
phanage. I really love the printing business. I always have 
loved it. When only fourteen years old I used to correct type. 
How glad I would have been had I been presented at that early 
age with types and press. It would have made me a much better 
printer. As it is, I never had a minute's instruction in a printing 
office in mv life. I wish I had passed a year in some good office 
as press-man. 

We are still in debt as deep as ever. We will not be able, I 
fear, to extricate ourselves from it, this year. This week, we 
have received nothing for the Orphanage. Oh, God, for Jesus' 
sake, help us. This is a great matter to me. Thou canst lift this 
burden with a touch. Help me. Oh, Lord help me. My own 
precious master, help me. 

I am determined to go to work for the establishment in this 
town of a library. It must be — it shall be. I am determined to 
have a really first class library with a good brick building and 
reading rooms — librarian, etc. So help me God and keep me 
steadfast and ever in my senses to keep and observe the same. 

February twenty- fifth. Today we finished building the gar- 
den of the Thornwell Orphanage. With the aid of the boys of the 
Orphanage — all the work has been done, saving $60.00 off the 
contract price. I consider this a proof of what may be done by 
the help of these boys for the advancement and adornment of the 
Orphanage. I thank God and take courage. 

March sixteenth. Yesterday I passed my thirty-fourth birth- 
day. Father is just twice my age. I may see my 69th but that 
is as God wills it, not as I will. 

On my hands constantly, a church of one hundred members — 
a Sunday school of 250 — a prayer meeting — Our Monthly printing 
office — this orphanage, and there is more still, but here are the 
grand things I will do. The Clinton Public Library — The Clinton 
College. 

I propose the following plan for the establishment of our 
college: that the Orphanage, as soon as it escapes this grinding 
debt call on the citizens to unite with us, that we furnish the land 
and hold the title and that we erect with the aid of the town, a 
building to which our advanced pupils shall be admitted. But 
the thousands of dollars must first be got to put the Orphanage 
on a thoroughly substantial basis. I think a thousand dollars to 
free us from debt, $1200 to run us a year and our invested fund 
of $15,000 is enough for our present establishment, btit we do 
need $1,000 for completion of our building and fencing. Unless 



182 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. Oh, 
Lord, help. 

I solemnly promise Almighty God that if he will relieve the 
Orphanage speedily from debt, I will take it as his voice, re- 
stricting me in all matters connected with it to have no debt in 
the future — and I solemnly promise him to resist every effort on 
the part of any to force debt on it. God helped me in preaching 
today. I grieve over my utter unfaithfulness. Glorious God, 
help and have mercy. Use me for thy works, O Lord. 

April eleventh. I have just returned from a pleasant trip 
to the sessions of Presbytery at Anderson. I did my very best to 
spend a pleasant week and did it. I tripped into Cokesbury also. 
Rather, Ripley and myself ran the Presbytery as Moderator and 
Clerk. 

Florence is ten years old today. She is growing into a smart, 
pretty child. May God give her a new heart. 

April tiventy -first. Mrs. Thornwell, the wife of Rev. J. H. 
Thornwell, D.D. came up on the train yesterday to spend a few 
days with us. She is an excellent lady and I am glad she takes 
such interest in the Orphanage. It is very pleasant to have her 
with us. 

At the recent meeting of Presbytery at Anderson, the rare 
spectacle was seen of a father and his two sons elected as officers — 
all ministers. Rev. F. Jacobs, D.D., Moderator; Rev. J. R. Jacobs, 
Temporary Clerk, and Rev. W. P. Jacobs, Stated Clerk. 

April tiventy -third. Yesterday I had a delightful trip to 
Newberry. The railroad gave us an excursion free of charge and 
about one hundred fifty ladies and children embraced the oppor- 
tunity. 

I wrote sometime ago my determination to establish a Pres- 
byterian Collegiate Institute in the town of Clinton. To this 
thing, I am more and more determined. 

My plan for the future is not yet fully determined. Prob- 
ably it will be as follows: First of all, I cannot work at it directly 
until the debt on the Orphanage is paid and some other work done 
toward its endowment. I can get neither the time nor the funds 
to carry on the work until that is done. But secondly I shall try 
to lead the members of the church to see the importance of a de- 
nominational school or rather to develop the already growing 
sentiment in that direction. I shall do nothing to cement a false 
union of opposing parties in the town except for the temporary 



AGE THIRTY-FOUR— 1876 183 

purposes of supporting Mr. Lee. Thirdly 1 shall try to lay the 
cornerstone of the Clinton College before May 28th, 1885. 

A note from Mr. Holderby tells me that the Tuskegee Or- 
phanage will have to succumb. They are trying to carry too heavy 
a load. This convinces me more than ever that our duty is to 
restrict our number to one dozen until our institution is endowed. 
That number I am very sure can be supportted. 

Maij ticeutn-third. I call on God for help and he hears me. 
I greatly needed $6.00 to pay freight but knew not whence it 
would come. Today I received a check for that amount. So my 
dear Lord still helps the Orphanage. 

Four years ago, I first resolved to plan for the Orphanage. 
What hath God wrought? Twelve years ago, I was ordained 
pastor. Infidelis ego! 

Muller's great success in his orphan work has led many to 
think that Muller's plan, as they call it, is the best plan for the 
institution to be supported. If this orphanage were the child of 
the Synod perhaps it would be but it is not. It is as yet merely 
mine — true notwithstanding all our paraphernalia, and I want it 
to endure when I am gone. My purpose has been to place it be- 
yond the contingency of failure. I have only this point of hesi- 
tation about our endowment: ''Shall we press it now?" 

June tenth. God showed us a token of his goodness last 
night. There was no meat in the house for breakfast. I re- 
ceived notice that "There is a box of clothing at the depot." It 
may contain a little meat. Let us try it first. I had just received 
$2.75 for subscription for Our MonthUi, ten minutes before, ail 
the money there was in the house. With this I paid the freight 
on the box which was even $2.75 and on opening the box took out 
two hams! I had just prayed for help. Thank God. 

June fourteenth. Oh God, help the Thornwell Orphanage out 
of debt! Help me! Give us day by day our daily bread. Give 
me wisdom. Give me energy. 

JuJie seventeenth. I do wish talk would build fences. I 
need one around the orphanage farm and lack elbow grease and 
money to carry it out. I can do nothing this winter and yet a 
cow is greatly needed, and a fence around our farm. 

July third. Yesterday I had a busy day and Saturday also. 
Sabbath School 112 present, collection $3.41. This is the very 
best collection ever taken up in my Sunday School. 

I rejoice that at last things I proposed years and years ago 



184 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

are beginning to be accomplished. And so I can hope on. Our 
Prayer meeting, our Sabbath School, our regular services on every 
Sabbath, our weekly collections, quarterly communions, our or- 
phanage, were things once dimly hoped for — now thoroughly es- 
tablished. The Brotherhood will soon be so, too. And who can 
tell that but a Presbyterian High School will also be given, as I 
thank God for his help. 

I must do more for our Library Society. I have set on foot 
three public libraries in this town. The Society's Library with 
150 volumes, the Orphanage Library with 200 and the Sunday 
School Library with nearly 1100. I found no books here when I 
came and now these are getting to be a reading people. 

July tiventieth. My darling little Minnie West is dead! Oh 
God, what can I say! I loved her so! Dear Savior, take good 
care of her and let me see her again some day. Precious darling 
Minnie, how can I give you up ! Tears come whenever I think of 
Minnie. I did love the little child so. Dear little thing, how 
sweetly she used to tell me she loved me. Oh Minnie! Minnie! 
how can I give you up. God pity and help her poor parents. 

I must write through this page for when I turn to it and see 
Minnie's name on it, it blinds me. Oh God, how I did love that 
child. Had she been my own, I could have loved her no better. 
Sweet blessed little one, the sunset land seems nearer now that 
you are there. 

August. I have just finished reading Francke's life and have 
been encouraged by certain facts in regard to his Orphan House 
at Halle. It was founded in 1695, one hundred and eighty years 
ago. And now it is a large and flourishing institution. Its suc- 
cess greatly encourages me. What may not this institution of 
mine be, one hundred years from now? 

Miss Pattie Thornwell, Dr. Thornwell's daughter, will teach 
for us next year in the Orphanage. I am glad. 

I want Clinton to be a manifest illustration of the power of 
faith and work. 

To God's glory I set it down. We owed Miss Emma W. a 
balance on her salarv. I knew not where to go to get it. I had 
not one cent and yet little by little it came in, the last cent coming 
in just in time to foot the bill exactly, and not one cent more or less. 
And this in direct answer to prayer. Oh my holy Savior, give 
me courage. Help me to work. Help me to pray. 



AGE THIRTY-FOUR— 1876 185 

There are 84 Presbyterians in the village of Clinton against 
22 Jews, Baptists, Methodists and Lutherans. There are 35 out 
of 46 Presbyterian families. My church numbers for the first 
time 110 members. I desire to see it number 200 at any rate and 
then I think it will be able to conduct its affairs with efficiency. 

I had a settlement some days ago with Mr. Bell by which I 
see that his charges against us still reach $600.00. I do pray my 
God to enable us to cancel this. 

September }ii)ith. Another death! Miss Elizabeth Patton 
is no more. What will little Cleo do? 

September fourteenth. This morning I went down to the 
train and found it in waiting for General Wade Hampton. I was 
introduced to him. Col. Aiken and Col. Simpson were also on 
board. Hampton made the ladies who had come out to see him 
quite a pretty little speech. After which we all went on together 
at Newberry. At Newberry a grand demonstration was made 
in favor of Hampton, four or five thousand present. I went up 
with Bailey to hear Hampton speak but we returned in about an 
hour tc the depot taking the woods on the way home in order 
to eat a water-melon. 

September tiventy-fifth. I left New York yesterday morn- 
ing after receiving a very kind promise from Brother Dickson to 
support a child in the Orphanage. Nothing particular in the 
way of variety on the road, except my ride on the Steamer Ade- 
laide down the Chesepeak from Baltimore to Norfolk. The grand- 
est thing I ever saw was the moonlight scene on the bay, nearly 
equalled by the bay dawn. The thrill and tremor of the boat, 
shaken by steam and sea, the dense black cloud under the half 
moon, the passing veil, shrouded in misty night, the glitter and 
sheen and roll of the waves, the flaming light house close by, tihe 
distant ocean liner and the lights along shore. Oh, it was grand! 

October eighth. Improved things by putting up a wardrobe 
in the girl's room and getting a cow. 

November eighth. Thank God! Laurens County is re- 
deemed. Once more we live in a free country. Laurens County 
has gone Democratic by a thousand majority. Oh, my dear Lord, 
I give thee thanks. And now I wait impatiently to hear from the 
State and the Union. No election for years past or years to come 
equals this. Thank God ! Thank God ! The good news is today 
that Tilden is elected President and Hampton, Governor. Thank 
God! Oh, glorious day for South Carolina. Rejoice, Oh my souP. 
The news is confirmed that South Carolina is redeemed. Oh, my 



186 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

God, I give thee thanks. Now help thy poor servant to work 
from the depth of my heart. 

November twenty-third. We still owe Mr. Bell $290.00. Oh 
my heavenly Father help me. Pay this sum for me. It seems 
small but it is heavy. Pay it, Father and lift the burden from us. 
Thou canst do it so easily. Oh, I am so grateful that we are near- 
ing the end of this long burden of debt. Help me, Oh God, even 
to the end. 

December tiventy- sixth. We tried to give our orphan chil- 
dren yesterday a pleasant Christmas and succeeded. We had a 
Christmas tree for them. They were carried away with delight. 

The debt of the Orphanage has been reduced from about $2000 
to less than $300.00. Fourteen children have been trained in it 
for a whole year. 



CHAPTER TWELVE 

1877— Age 35 

Eighteen seventy seven comes in in a furious snow storm. 
For eight days the frost-bitten ground has been safely hidden 
under a volley of sleet ; yesterday it began to melt but at mid- 
night the tears of the old year changed to New Year snow, whirl- 
ing, driving everywhere. White, everywhere. Now that the 
New Year begins, I am determined to seek to make it a fruit- 
ful year. I want to be more prayerful and studious than ever. 
I have selected for our school motto: **Bless the Lord, my soul, 
and forget not all his benefits." And I have enough to thank 
God for. Our orphanage is better provided with provisions than 
it ever was. We have, besides, money in the treasury and only 
$340.00 of debt to meet. I do thank God and rejoice in his Holy 
name. 

WHAT WE DO AT THE ORPHANAGE 

Extracts from A Diary Kept by the Children During the 

Years 1877—1880 

During the first few years of the Orphanage the children also kept a 
diary. From it the following excerpts are taken. The spelling and punc- 
tuation are those of the authors. (Editor.) 

THE BEGINNING 

This is the 27th cUiy of December, 1876. The Orphanage was opened 
nearly fifteen months ago. There are just twenty-one of us in all in the 
Orphanage. Their names are: 

The Prcisideiit : Rev. W. P. Jacobs 
The Matron: Mrs. Mary Jacobs 
The Teacher: Miss Pattie Thornwell 
The Girls: Julia Fripp, Fannie Agnew, Flora Pitts, Cleo Patton, Nora 
Fripp, Florence Jacobs, Ella Entriken, Mary Smith, Lula Damall, Anna 
Agnew, Letha McOants. The boys: Alfred Agnew, D. Boozer, Courtney 
Wilson, Johnnie Agnew, Ferdie, States, and Dillard Jacobs. 

In this book our children will have to do a good deal of writing. All 
of us will put in a word now and then, 

1876 

Monday morning at six o'clock every child in the Thornwell Orphanage 
was up and calling out "Christmas gift," And we all ran into Miss Pattie's 
room to get the stockings and they were filled with candy, apples and 
raisins. When we had finished eating what we wanted it was daylight. 
I thought dinner time would never come but it came at la.st. Then aJfter 
dinner it was a long time before night came. Then we had the Christmas 
tree — Julia Fripp. 

187 



188 DIA^Y OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

February sixteenth — Last night at ten o'clock God gave me 
a fifth child, a little lad that I pray may grow to be a good and 
useful boy and a noble man. We will name him Thornwell in 
that he is the first and only child born in the Thornwell Or- 
phanage. 

March third — I am very grateful to God because he is en- 
abhng me to straighten out my business so that I am getting 
even with the world. I feel very sure that I will be completely 
out of debt by the end of this year, a situation I have not been 
in since I came to CHnton. I am glad. 

March fifth — I was much encouraged by our services last 
sabbath. Our Sunday School was really encouraging. Singing 
beautiful. Collection $7.10. Answer to all questions, good. Be- 
havior good. I was much encouraged too by our morning con- 
gregation. Night not as good as usual. I want to get every- 
thing ready now for Presbytery and for our Sunday School an- 
niversary. Lord, help me. 

March seventh — I feel greatly encouraged about our Or- 
phanage. I received last night $121 by mail. This is a proof 
that the Lord means good for our institution. Lord, send light 
and help and that continually. 

March eleventh — Last night I received $50.00 for the Or- 
phanage. Thank God. 

~ 1877 

New Year 1877 — I resolve to use no bad language. — R. C. W. 

I have longed for thy salvation, O Lord, I resolve to study hard — Fannie 
Agnew. 

Johnnie most of the time has dirty hands. Christmas, Mr. Jacobs gave 
him a cake of soap. All the boys laughed and said he had better give Court- 
ney a cake of soap as his hands were rusty. Johnnie keeps his soap in his 
trunk and cuts off a little piece every time he uses it — Fannie Agnew. 

The Printing Office — We work in the priting office four hours every day. 
Sometimes I think our time will never get out. You have to be careful 
when you set typ« or you will pie it faster than you set it. I have been 
working in the printing office one year last Christmas. We have to 
work one minute extra for every type Mr. Jacobs finds on the floor when 
we stop work. — D. T. Boozer, Feb. 19. 

The Little Boy — We have the prettiest little boy that you ever saw, I 
think he is although I have not seen much of him yet. I have had him twice. 
The first time I took him he cried but the last time he was asleep all the 
time. His name is Thoinwell. Poor little Dillard is not the baby any longer. 
I hope Thornwell will grow up fast and get to laughing so we can nurse 
him— Flora Pitts, Feb, 19 

FcbrHHiy 2:i — The Orphanage School — I have been going to schtH)l at the 
Orphanage over a year and am learning fast. The first teacher was Miss 
Emma Witherspoon, she taught the first year. I liked to go to school to 
her. Our teacher now is Miss Pattie Thornwell. She has not been here 
very long and I think we are all learning very fast for I am sure that she 
is a good teacher. School takes in at two o'clock and lets out at five. We 
are study the catechism and recite it every day. Some of us have been 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 189 

Today I had good audiences and some comfort in preaching. 
Our young ladies have taken hold of the singing in real dead 
earnest. We are having it very greatly improved. I believe God 
intends good for my church, yet Lord help me and keep me in 
my work for the Orphanage. Our contributions for the endow- 
ment have now ceased. We have received $161.86. I will make 
no further effort in that direction for a year. But I will write 
for the Christian Observer and through it, seek to raise the nec- 
essary funds to build our kitchen and finish our third story. 
$500.00 will do both. This is to be our summer's work. I am 
determined to make our Orphanage a complete establishment, 
God willing. I want 24 orphan inmates. That is enough for 
this one house. 

through it two or three times. We each have a nice desk, two can sit at 
a desk. We have to bound all the states and territories in the United 
States every Friday. I think we ought to learn fast when so much pains 
is beinK taken to teach us. — Flora Pitts. 

Februaru 23 — Clinton. Clinton is a small village in the northwestern part 
of South Carolina. It has a railroad. The train runs three times a week. 
It has two churches one is a Presbyterian and the other one is a Metho- 
dist. It has three schools and eleven stores. There are streets running 
up and down and crossways. We live on main street; it runs from north 
to south. We have three grogshops, one drug store and one confectionary. 
People are building houses. Cinton will be a city some day. — Florence 
L. Jacobs. 

The Dining Room — Is furnished by the Newberry Presbyterian Church. 
There are two tables one is a long one and the other is a short one and 
twenty four chairs. We have had two bells the first one we had lasted 
a long time, a whole year. We all love I'he dining room because there is 
where we eat. — March 9th — Florence Jacobs. 

My Children — I have more children than anybody else in Clinton. Five 
of them are my own and fifteen, the good Lord has sent under my care. I 
won't say much about my own, for it would be vanity to praise them and 
I don't like to blame them. But about these dear orphan children, I will 
say a word or two. I don't know which one of them is the best. Lethe is 
the youngest; I think she will grow after a while, although she is a little 
old woman now. She is a good child. I'll say that for her because she 
can't read this. Annie, Nonnie, Ella, Cleo — four good children, each one 
with an apron full of little faults that they are trying to kill out. I am 
afraid Nonnie isn't trying as hard as she ought to kill hers. God has 
given her a good mind and she ought to use it for his glory. Lula is the 
only other little girl. She can be good when she tries. She must try 
very hard. Julia. Fannie, Flora, Minnie. These are our elder sisters. 
They are our jewels. I really don't know what we would do without them. 
They are all trying to be good, to love God and to do right. May God 
bless t'hem all. We love them very much. 

We have four boys. Courtney gets mad sometimes and sometimes he gets 
lazy, but he is trying to break up all his bad habits. He is a bright boy 
but bright boys very oftsn go to the bad. Courtney must walich himself 
and God will help him to make a man of himself yet. D. is a good hearted 
boy. He had a good many faults when he first came to the Orphanage 
but he is trying to get rid of them. We all like D. He must learn to 
fear no kind of duty, to be faithful in everythng. I think he is learning 
this. He is our oldest boy and ought to be our most trusted onp. Johnnie 
is little and too crickety. We will have to sober him down. Johnnie will 
come out alright, though. He is studying hard. He must study harder. 
Well, these boys do worry us a good deal, but we will have a good cry 



190 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I am glad that some of the young ladies have determined 
to go to work to get up a mite society for the purpose of raising 
funds to be expended in the congregation. 

Mr. Scott is now hard at work for the Orphanage. He has 
sent us two fine boxes of provisions lately and some money. I 
praise and bless God. 

The Orphanage now stands as follows: 

ASSETS 



Farm, 100 acres 


$1,500 




Building lots 25 


1,000 




Dwelling and Buildings 


5,800 




Furniture and bedding 


1,200 




Library and books 


200 




Endowment 


1,500 




Funds for same 


275 




Cash on hand 
ndebtedness 


50 


$11,525 
150 



We have had a hard, hard pull to get rid of our debt but it 
is nearly paid now. We are now able to go on with our endow- 
ment and to push our buildings on to completion. Thank God! 
Thank God! 

when any of them leave us. March 28th, 1877. — Papa. 

Catechism — We all hafe to study the catechism and it is hard to learn. 
Some of us will get a prize for repeating it at the Anniversary. Nearly 
all have been through — Flora Pitts. May 8th, 1877. 

The Mite Society: We had a mite society at the Orphanage the last Fri- 
day night in April. I think that every body that was here enjoyed it. 
We Orphan children sang one piece and then all the children went down 
stairs to play, we had a nice time playing with the girls, we played John- 
nie O. Broun and Shaker dance and Courting in the dark and Steal part- 
ners and several other plays. There was a box at the door which they 
come in and everybody put in their mits $3.25. May 9th — D. T. Boozer. 

August twentieth, 1877 — We have three more new children Mollie and 
Tommio Clatworthy and my little sister Minnie. I have come home from 
spending two pleasant weeks with Ma but I wanted to see Mr. and Mrs. 
Jacobs. Mr. Jacobs told us if we didn't write in this book he would take 
it out of here but he can't take it out now. — Flora Pitts. 

August twenty-fourth — The workmen are hammering and sawing up 
stairs. Pa moved the printing office up there today and they are working 
to get the other rooms done then the boys will move up then Pa will divide 
the girls and put us in the room where Miss Pattie stays now, then Ma will 
movo into the room where the boys stay now and put Miss Pattie in Ma's 
room. I will be one of the ones that stays in Miss Pattie's room and O! 
won't that be nice. — Florence. 

October second, 1877 — This is holiday and oh how we did beg for it; Miss 
Pattie said we couldn't have holiday if it was left to her, just whatever 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacobs said, so we set in to begging Mrs. Jacobs, just what- 
ever Mr. Jacobs says, we begged awhile and he kept on laughing. We 
all thought we would have holiday when it was left to him and sure 
enough we have it but why did we all want holiday? Because two years 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 191 

March twenty-sixth — I am much troubled about father's af- 
fairs. His move to Atlanta is a complete failure. How glad I 
am now that I so strongly urged against it. I sent him all the 
money I had and have written to him to come on to me and I 
will do all I can to get him a situation again. I was pleased with 
my Sunday School congregation yesterday. Miss Pattie is a 
good worker in my congregation by her influence among the 
young people. She has taken charge of the singing in both Sun- 
day School and church and has developed it considerably. The 
organ has been put directly in front of the pulpit and the back 
seats are now deserted by the young people. They have all come 
to the front. 

apfo yesterday we first met in the Orphanage. We have improved very 
much since then and I hope we will continue to improve as much. We 
have begun our third year. One of the children are now at home, Minnie 
McKittrick is at home sick, we all will be glad to see her back again. I 
wish she was here to begin the New Year with us and to enjoy this begged 
for holiday. Mrs. Jacobs says we had better beg for school instead of holi- 
day. — Flora Pitts. 

I haven't been at the Orphanage but a few weeks. I like it very much. 
Today is the second day of October, 1877 — Minnie Pitts. 

We have holiday today but we ought to had it yesterday because it was 
the anniversary day. It has been two years since the Orphanage opened. 
It opened the first day of October. And Mr. Jacobs was gone to Green- 
ville and Miss Pattie and Mrs. Jacobs would not give us holiday and when 
Mr. Jacobs came back he gave us a holiday. It was Miss Pattie's birthday 
and we all asked her how old she was but she wouldn't tell us. — Nonie 
Fripp. October 2, 1877. 

Mr. Jacobs went to Presbytery last Tuesday morning before daylight. We 
all missed him very much. Mr. Jacobs came back the first day of October. 
He brought us all some candy, — Anna Agnew. 

My Cook Week — This is my cook week but I don't like to cook very much. 
Flora, Ella and myself are in the cook room this week but neither of us 
like it very much. It \\ill be out tonight so I think I must stop. — Cleo Pat- 
ton. 

Our morning and evening worship. It affords me great pleasure to at- 
tend our morning and evening worship. After breakfast the bell rings for 
worship and we all hasten to the schoolroom, seated at our desks with our 
Bible and Hymnbooks open while Miss Pattie is seated at the Melodian 
and Mr. Jacobs at his desk. First we recite a psalm by heart, next the 
creed or commandments, then we repeat the Lord's prayer after that we 
sing, read a chapter, have prayer and all dismissed. After supper have 
reading and prayer. — Minnie. 

October nineteenth, 1877 — "Our Teacher" — I don't think any scholar ever 
had a better teacher than we have. I do love her better I believe every 
day. She makes us all study hard and if we don't know our lessons she 
keeps us in but we love her all the better for we know it is her duty. We 
miss her a great deal when she is not here. She is so kind who could keep 
from loving her? I hope she will always be our teacher. — Flora Pitts. 

I resolve to study hard and be kind to all. — \ovie Fripp. 

October twentieth, 1877 — Sunday evening at the Orphanage. We are en- 
gaged for one or two hours every Sunday evening in the school room study- 
ing our lesson for Sunday School. For the next Sunday morning. Miss 
Pattie is always in there with us, she hears the lessons and catechism. 
After we have studied our lessons she sings with us for a long time and 
teaches us a great many new hymns. She takes a great deal of pains to 
teach us to sing in time and sing right. I hope that we all will tr>' to 



192 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

April fourteenth — It is becoming clearer to my mind that 
our present plan of having both girls and boys associated in one 
orphanage is not best. We need a boy's house separate from the 
girls. 

April sixteenth — Mr. Scott came in from a short tour for 
the orphanage, bringing in a barrel of flour just as we needed it. 

April tiventy -fourth — We have come to the pinch. Oh, Lord, 
send help. How can we feed all these children without thy con- 
stant aid. It is a source of great anxiety to me, to be able to 
provide for these children. We are coming to the edge. Oh, my 
dear Lord, send help speedily. Show me what things to do for 
Jesus' sake. 



sing the best we can, and behave while she is singing and teaching us, too. 
— Julia M. Fripp. 

November first, 1877 — The Orphanage is a stone building, situated in 
the town of Clinton. It was opened two years ago with ten children. It 
now has eighteen. The Orphanage is a nice rock building. It is painted 
nicely. It has two horses and two cows one was presented by the Sumter 
Church and we call her Sumter. She is a prettie cow. The other one is 
Mae. We have a good many chickens too. Our teacher is a good one and 
I love her very much. She teaches music, too, we have a nice school room. 
We have some hogs. I love to stay at the Orphanage. — Florence Jacobs. 

November twelfth — We killed the first hog that was ever raised on th^e 
Orphanage plantation today, weighed two hundred pounds. — Florence L. 
Jacobs. 

December tenth, 1877 — Thanksgiving Day — Was a happy day at the Or- 
phanage. We had holiday for the first time. Some of us went to church 
and heard a very good sermon. Julia, Florence, Mollie and myself went 
and gathered flowers. A nice turkey dinner was ready by the time we 
got home which we all enjoyed, after dinner some of us went to ride 
while others stayed to cook the candy for that was the next thing to come. 
We all gathered around the table and began to pull the candy. Some who 
were in a hurry, put in their hands just a little too soon and it felt some- 
what warm. Thus ended the happy day. — Flora Pitts. 

Mrs. Lee thinks Mrs. Jacobs must have a heavy load on her shoulders to 
carry this granite house and twenty three children beides. It must be a 
load if that is where she carries it but I believe she has a better piace 
than that to bear the burden. Strength is given her from on high. "As thy 
day, thy strength shall be." — December 1th, 1877. 

The Christmas Tree — We had such a good time last Tuesday night. We 
was standing at the door waiting a long time before we could get in. 
There was a great many people came to see it. We looked through the 
window and saw the little candles. They looked so pretty. When we 
went in it looked so pretty. The first thing taken down was a penwiper 
it was for Mrs. Jacobs. I got a great many presents and I think we all 
got as many as we could carry upstairs. When I got* upstairs I was so 
tired I had a lap full. I think we all got a great many prisents at least 
I did. We had such a good time that night so 1 think I must stop. — Ella 
Entrekin. 

Jdunarn tenth, ('hristnias — I am Ljlad when Christmas comes because I 
get .so many nice things. Christmas eve night we hang up our stockings 
for Old Santa Claus to fill and next morning we jump up and run to see 
what Santa has brought us calling out Christmas gift, to all. Christmas 
comes only once a year. — C7< o I'attoH. 



AGE THIRTY-FTVR— 1877 193 

Afjril twcnty-seroith — Last night we had a new society or- 
ganized, a delightful little sociable entitled "The United Society." 
Everybody gave a penny, the object being to raise funds to paint 
the church. I had much enjoyment at it, and felt more interest 
from it, in our young people. God help them. Our orphan child- 
ren behaved well and I was gratified at their evident cordial re- 
ception by everybody. 

April twenty-eighth — Why do not the people ever think to 
say one word of encouragement to their pastor? 

Man seventh — I am exceedingly unwell today, hardly able 
to hold a pen which may account for my dull, gloomy feelings. 
I am very much troubled for the Orphanage. We have no money. 
Oh Lord, send aid and help me at once. Yet if we perish it is 
the Lord, let him do as seemeth unto him, good. 

May tenth — My heart was gratified and encouraged last 
night by the reception by mail of a check for $100.00 for the 
Orphanage. God has gloriously answered my cries for help. A 
week ago w^e had nothing. Now we have $150.00 in the treas- 
ury. I thank God and rejoice with joy unspeakable. God is 
strangely helping our orphanage. My sincere joy is that this 
has come at a time of w^ant when I am about to leave for two 
or three weeks. During my absence I feel that all is safe. May 
the dear Lord comfort and encourage me more and more and 
give me the money I need to fully meet all my plans for the com- 
pletion of the building. I shall set this $100.00 to the building 
fund. Our young folks are all busy today, making preparations 
for our S. S. anniversary tomorrow. 

May thirteenth — Yesterday our children had a delightful 
time. Our 13th anniversary was celebrated with more comfort 
and eclat than ever. Over three hundred persons were out. 126 
children marched in the procession. Fifty or sixty prizes were 
given. The church was decorated very prettily, more so than 
on any former occasion. The behavior was excellent. Our re- 
ports were exceedingly favorable. I enjoyed myself much and 
am. getting more and more interested in my little fold. God help 
and prosper it. 

1878 

January first — It is a great pleasure to us all to have dear ffood Mrs. 
Thornwell with us. She feels just like a mother to us all. May God spare 
her useful and valuable life many, many years to come. 

I have been much gratified with my \'isit at the Thornwell Orphanage, I 
think it wonderful to see so many children agree so well, all so willing to 
work and to learn, I do not think any other person could manage the in- 
stitution as well as Mr. Jacobs has done. He certainly lives by faith and 



194 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

May seventeenth — I bought this book today in a bookstore 
on Prytania Street, New Orleans, La. I am a long ways from 
home. Sitting here in room No. 188, St. Charles Hotel, I open 
this journal. Thou, God, only knowest where it will be closed. 
I left home last Monday morning in the Orphanage wagon with 
Mr. Scott who in the kindness of his soul drove for me to New- 
berry. (Twenty-one miles — Editor.) On the G. and C. R. R. I 
met Mrs. Waldrop and Miss Codie W. and other kind friends. My 
first night I spent at Seneca City. I surveyed the city by the light 
of the youngest moon I ever saw, the thinnest hair-line of a cres- 
cent. Mr. Towers of Anderson was with me. My host at the 
Seneca City Hotel gave me a good bed. Early in the morning I 
took the Air Line railway. The route to Atlanta was picturesque, 
the cuts deep, the hills high, the streams rapid, the towns all new, 
the farms infrequent. I reached Atlanta at ten forty and found 
Father, Mamie and Bessie waiting for me, took dinner with them 
and enjoyed it hugely. From this point on, the members of the 
Assembly increased in number. Dr. Wilson joined me at Opelika. 
I had a delightful sleep on the cars. Opelika is not much on ice- 
cream but it is quite a city nevertheless. Didn't see any of the 
country till I opened my eyes twelve miles on this side of Mobile 
— I mean the other side from here. I was interested in the im- 
mense swamps, the streams and rivers in great numbers. The 
view of Mobile was not a good one. From Mobile to New Orleans 
the road was so new as not to be monotonous, the growth of mag- 
nolia, bay, yucca, dwarf palmetto and the water flowers — lilies, 
even the dreary pines and the miles on miles of marsh grass was 
not altogether uninteresting. 

May eighteenth — At the Assembly today I made the ac- 
quaintance of Dr. Hoge and pretty much all the distingues. I do 
not feel as little as I ought among these dignitaries. 

May nineteenth — Oh, the burdens of iniquity. This Satur- 
day night's walk has shown me the vileness of corruption that 
burns out the light of the great city. Drunkenness, brazen women, 
concert halls to lure the unwary to hell — lotteries, dens of gamb- 
ling. These crowd upon each other. No wonder that when the 
beloved master beheld the city he wept over it. 



works. • The Matron rnd Teacher both deserve much credit in their depart- 
ments. May it ever prosper and be a prreat blessing to the Orphans, a sin- 
cere friend. — NWT. 

The /yorA-— It is a lock with a twine strinp: tied to it but now it has a piece 
of black biaid in it. It is to put around our necks when we do not speak 
correctly. All of the children have had it except four. Some of the child- 
ren have it most all the time. Some of them ffet it at nijrht. We do not 
put it in the morning. We all do not like to see it. — Mollic. 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 195 

A postal from Mary, today was like sweet water to a thirsty 
soul. God reward the precious, blessed woman. Mr. Shaw hand- 
ed me a dollar for the Orphanaj^e from a little girl in Button 
Rouge. 

May twentieth — This morning I went to Dr. Palmer's S. S. 
It is not so good an institution as mine at Clinton. The only points 
it excels in are such as money could readily supply. I think mine 
more efficient, as well behaved, sing better and more interestin:r 
and nearly as large. 

May twenty-first — Today has been an exceedingly busy one 
with me. I was in the Assembly until four. I rushed home to 
dinner at five with my little friend Lizzie Mitchel and with all 
the Assembly and its host of friends I went on board the magni- 
ficent steamer Robert E. Lee. This majestic boat is a three or 
four decker, splendidly appointed. It first steamed down below 
the point and then turning, steamed up the river nine miles to 
Carrolton. We had a full view of the greater part of the river 
front of New Orleans, about ten out of its sixteen miles. The 
town shows a very heavy amount of shipping, mainly river boats, 
although in one place I noticed a perfect forest of masts. One 
magnificent ocean steamer. The river did not appear to be over 
a half mile wide. I was disappointed in that particular. I got 
a good idea of the levee (pro levvy) system, noticed distinctly 
that the river was higher than its shores! 

May twenty-jourth — I am troubled, tho about Ferdie. He has 
typhoid fever and if it were at all possible I ought to go home. 
God bless and ease the lad. 

May twenty-eighth — There are three funny things about 
this town, the waters all run through the drains away from the 
river, the dead are all buried above ground and the cisterns are 
great vessels outside of the houses. The verandas of this city 
and awnings are a wonderful feature. One might walk ha^f a 
mile on Canal Street on a rainy day without getting wet. 

May thirtieth — I had a pleasant sojourn of a day in Atlanta 
at father's. I went with him through the main portions of the 



February fifth, 18TS—1 will praise thse, O Lord with mv whole heart. 

The Cow— Mr. Scott came Saturday with a cow. We call her Bell Means. 
Bell was her name when we pot her and we call h?r Means after the lady 
that jrave her. Mr. Scott had some trouble getting her home. He could 
not get her across the river. He and a negro carried it across and had 
to push the cow into the water. She started down the stream for a while, 
then she swam across. He left her with a negro who hurt his eye so 
ho could not bring hsr and Mr. Scott had to go after her. He had to saw 
off her horns. She killed a cow and horned a cow but she is a good milk 



193 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOKS 

city. I admired very much its active bustling appearance, the 
quiet beauty of the residence streets and the elegance of the build- 
ings and houses. I was perfectly carried away with the display 
of zeal in building up the town. There was a great deal too much 
to be seen in a day. I called on Rev. Dr Martin and Leftwich, 
visited the ice-manufactory, but couldn't get in. 

June second — The leafy month of June comes in with delight- 
ful breath of flowers. I shall earnestly labor this month for the 
kingdom. My work shall be to pave the way for our July meeting. 
I want to record to the glory of God that the four letters I wrote 
one month ago in great agony of soul, to kind friends pleading 
for aid, have been answered by one hundred and eighty five dol- 
lars. *'Ask and ye shall receive, seek and ye shall find, knock 
and it shall be opened unto you." 

June thirteenth — I have written begging letters that I hope 
and pray and believe will finish our attic. My heart is bent on 
getting that off of our hands. I sincerely pray God for his help 
in this arduous undertaking. I must plan, too, for a completion 
of our building by adding piazza and kitchen. 

June seventeenth — Preaching the gospel is a grand work. I 
am surprised that people come to hear such sermons as I give 
them. Yet I have large and increasing audiences. 

June tiventy 'third — Our garden and farm is doing excellent- 
ly this year. If the rains hold out, we will make a fine corn 
crop. Our oats were poor. Wheat good. I am encouraged as 
to its prospects. 

Jidy third — Father will probably take charge of the Lau- 
rensville College. My trip to Laurens in his interest was com- 
pletely successful. 

July eighth — Mrs. Craig died last night. A pure minded, 
noble Christian woman is gone. One more in the heavenly branch 
of the Clinton church. I conducted service at her house last 
night. Ring on, sweet sabbath bell. 

July tenth — I have todav been thinking over the past. 
Thirteen years ago, I came to the town of Clinton. I see great 

cow and we hope she will do pfood service to the Orphanage. — Floric Jacobs. 
Fridau the fifteenth of February — was the birthday of the pet of the 
household. Throu^-h much tribulation and sickness he succeeded in reach- 
injr his first birth(iay. He is a bright and swecl baby and has many cunning 
and affectionate little ways. Minnie is the apple of his eye and the joy of 
his heart. They are devoted to each other. I believe I come in for a small 
share of his love and notice. I fear he will not talk soon for we all un- 
derstand his signs too well. Thornwell is a great walker. I wonder if 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 197 

changes since then, and many improvements. The thorough or- 
ganizing of the church has been a work of time but it has been 
made more sure every year until now, it is a compact, well or- 
dered church. The school has greatly advanced, the Orphanage 
notabl\". But I am not satisfied, until I get a Male College in 
the town of Clinton. There is one at Newberry, I know. Only 
twenty miles off, but we may do better here, if we had pluck 
and perseverance. 

JhU} eleventh — Mother and Minnie came today. They are 
quarantined for the present with Uncle States. Soon will be 
with me. 

Jiihj fifteenth — Father arrived last night, he is looking well. 
Mr. Scott arrived and tells me that he has got 9000 feet of lum- 
ber donated and two cars to bring it free. I do thank thee. Oh, 
my heavenly Father I 

July twenty-seeond — Ripley is with me and father. Our 
school having ended, all our children are scattering off on their 
vacation trips. Miss Pattie, Courtnev Wilson and D. Boozer 
left today. Our meeting is interesting. Ripley is preaching for 
mc and doing excellently. 

Juhi twenty-ninth — Our lumber has arrived and we have 
the workmen engaged. 

August fourth — Mary, all my children and most of the or- 
phan children are away. Father and Mother are with me. The 
carpenters make it lively enough for us. 

August eight — I have finished preaching at Rocky Springs 
and now propose to occupy the next few days in getting straight- 
ened out, writing up all my letters and entering on the campaign 
for the OrphanaTe. I received last night $6.00 for an article 
recently written for the Illustrated Christian Weekly. They have 
never refused any article I ever sent them. 

August fourteenth — Very little aid of late, has been received 
by the Orphanage. There is now nothing in the sustenance treas- 



he takes after the person he is named for. I confess that little ffllow has 
a strong hold on my affections. Is it because he is a baby or the name? 
I think a little of both. Thornwell is a blue eyed boy with croldon hair 
and rosy cheeks. — February 18th, 1878. 

The Mule — We have got a mule at the Orphanage before they bought her 
they tried her we hailed the sills of the kitchen with her and when wre got 
through hailing them we hailed some wood and then that evening I plowed 
her and we liked the way she worked and we bought her. We give $80.00 
for her. We got her from Mr. Butler Furgerson. We have had her little 
over a week. She won't kick or run away either. But she don't like the 



198 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ury. What are we to do? Oh, Lord, I look to thee unless thy 
grace bring help, we will sink and perish. Hear me, Oh, my 
father, for these children's sake. My dear wife thinks that 
she must soon leave the Orphanage. This troubles. Her com- 
fort and health must be considered. Nobly and faithfully has 
she stood by me to help me, these two years past. God give 
her grace and strength for such time as it is best for her to 
remain here. 

August thirtieth — I have just returned from a four days 
trip to New Harmony Church, where I have been assisting Rip- 
ley. I preached seven times for him in four days. We received 
four new members. I came back to find our work advancing 
very slowly. We have moved the Printing office up to the third 
story and here I expect to do a great deal of my work in the 
writing line. 

September second — Today I found mvself deserted. The 
Camp meeting at Hopewell had drawn away my entire congre- 
gation. Ought I not to withstand these camp-meetings? With 
my present views of duty they seem more dangerous even than 
our ordinary dancing parties. I see the evil effects in my own 
flock for weeks after the camp. They are destroying the sab- 
bath. 

September fifteenth — I have had one experience within the 
past few days which will, I hope, help me to remember the words 

It you your lips 
Would keep from slips, 
Five things observe with care : 
Of whom you speak, 
To whom you speak, 
And how and when and where. 

I will at least try to keep my lips shut when know tale-bearers 
arc about. 

September seventeenth — But we do sadly need a kitchen 
and piazza and an assistant for Mary. These are our most 
pressing needs. Mary has too much to do. We have either too 



Kteam mill much. She is a dove color and has a black streak down her 
back. She is not a very larjre mule. I like her very much. Feb 26 — 
D. T. Bnozer. 

Old Fail's Dcjmrt urc — Old Fan was a very gfood old horse. She u.sed to 
belong to the Orphanage but she was sold for five dollars. She left the 
Orphanapre last Tuesday week. I was sorry to see her leave and some of 
the children went out and told her poodbye. She had a very sore \e^ and 
oft-en would get down and couldn't get up by herself. 

The New Sewing Machine — It was given to the Orphanage by Mrs. Black- 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 199 

many children or too little help. But the question is — who to 
get and how to pay her. 

October sLvth — I begin to believe that it is now my duty to 
get ready to leave the Orphanage. It presses me sorely to dis- 
charge my duties faithfully in both institutions. It is still hard- 
er on my wife. She has been compelled to give up all attention 
to the flock. I need a guide from on hijxh. Lord, shape my 
ways. 

October ei(jhth — Last night at our educational meeting we 
either destroyed all hope for Clinton College or sowed seed to 
germinate centuries hence. I have kept this matter a long time 
in my mind. I see that it will indeed be 1789 and may be 1979 
before the cornerstone is laid. I plead thine aid, Oh Lord. I 
am ready to sink. Help me, my dear Savior, and provide for 
these children. 

October twelfth — By the last mail the Lord heard my pray- 
ers and sent me $37.50. God be praised. 

October fourteenth — Today my Sunday School agreed to un- 
dertake the support of Mr. Tse Kyin-Tsang. He is our mis- 
sionarv. So then mv Sundav School has a missionarv of its 
own. Did I ever think I would live to see my church supporting 
a native foreign missionary? 

October twenty-fii'st — Last Wednesday Mr. Scott took me to 
Newberry and by three o'clock I was taking dinner with Mr. C. 
Boucknight in Columbia. Synod was to meet me at eight P. M. 
I had a good opportunity to speak for the Orphanage, my few 
remark? were very kindly met — and several handed me gifts. 
One brother with tears in his eyes said "Take this dollar, my 
children may be there some day." It was his last dollar. I had 
pleasant visit to Dr. Woodrow's where I dined and Dr. Plumer's 
where I supped. It is now very probable that we will organize 
our long talked of new Presbytery next year. It is probably my 
fault that it was not organized before. I visited the Seminary 
where I met Lowry. Yesterday a five hour's ride brought me 



wood, a very kind lady from Grsenville City. It is the Graver and Baker 
Machine, runs easy and is very plain. Has but few attachments. I like 
to sew on it very much. It uses two spools of thread at once, one under 
and one on top so we can sew a lonp time before the thtead ^ves out. 
I think it suits the children because it is plain. It has four drawers and 
is in a case which is very convenient. We send many thanks to the jarood 
lady for her kindness to the Orphanage. — Minni4' M. 

The Mite Society — The Mite Society met at the Orphanage last Friday 
night and we all had a nice time. We played Shaker dance, steal partners. 
Hog drovers and several other plays. Mr. Jacobs showed the Magic Lan- 



200 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

home, where I found all very glad to see me. And Mr. Briggs 
is dead! What is this life? 

October tiventij-third — The session meets Sunday afternoon. 
The Board of visitors on the 7th and the Deacons on the third 
Monday night of each month. I pray God for his spirit in all 
these meetings. 

October tic enty -seventh — Last night an answer to special 
prayer to God for encouragement to believe in Him and his prom- 
ises, I received $21.00 for the building^fund, Mr. Bell $13.00 and 
Mr. Scott secured $25.00 worth of provisions. Oh, how can I 
ever doubt the Lord. I will pray to Him for $250.00 for this 
building fund. I feel sure we will get it all before Saturday, 
two weeks, or at least $100.00, enough for our piazza. I feel as 
if the Lord were going to put it into our power to secure that. 
Then, our list of subscribers for remodeling the pulpit is nearly 
completed. We are to get up a new carpet, too, for the church. 
The Lord is sending life into us. 

November sixth — This dear little church is certainly grow- 
ing more liberal. I think our congregation will raise for home 
purposes nearly $400.00 beside my salary of $700.00 and the Or- 
phanage $150.00. Our Foreign aid will reach $100.00. Yester- 
day I was pleased with the Sunday School. We now have the 
Infant School, taught by my wife in the church. She has three 
teachers under her. We hope soon to have two preaching sta- 
tions in the bounds of the congregation. I thank the Lord for 
so much done for him ! 

November seventh — At last the idea has been struck in our 
High School work. Mr. Lee, at my suggestion has agreed to 
add to and improve our present school building, to occupy the 
upper portion with his family and to add to the building if nec- 
essary. The result will be, I think, to establish the School upon 
a firm basis and to make it an improving affair. I shall con- 
sider this as the successful achievement of my labors to estab- 
lish a boarding school and shall fight it out on this line for the 



tern and I think we all enjoyed it. The Orphan children sang two pieces, 
Katydid and Goodnight. — Cleo Pattov. March 12th, 1878. 

March eiphteevth — I will tell you something about Thornwell. One thing 
he can do is to walk by himself and that is the best thing I know about 
him. He loves to swing. I know that he loves Minnie, and I don't like 
that because he does not love me. I had rather for him to love me than 
Minnie. Thornwell gets a great many falls and he cries so loud that it 
sounds like he is hurt so bad. Thornwell fell out of the piazza and bumped 
his head. Minnie holds Thornwell most all the time nearly and I don't get 
to hold him a bit, I think Minnie ought to let me hold Thornwell some. — 
Lou Darnell. 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 201 

rtst of the campaign. My next effort will be to get the present 
property linked to Presbyterianism and in that I will succeed. 

Xorcmber twenty- fourth — Brother Chichester spent several 
days with me. He brought a note containing $40.00 from old 
Dr. Plumer tor the furnishing of the reception room in our Or- 
phanage. We will try to do it nicely and will make it a real 
pleasure to the Columbians who visit me. He also gave me a 
five from his wife for our building fund. God reward him. 

December first — Sabbath morning father preached for me 
and baptized our little "Thornweil." A good congregation. 

December sixth — I will record here today's work to show 
how my time is filled. First, there was a chapter in English, 
one in Greek, one in Hebrew, then a private admonition with 
each of three of the boys and a conference with Mary about them 
then some reading, breakfast, worship, directions to the five 
boys about the work, then I consulted four or five authors on 
"the garden of Eden" then I wrote a f'.dl sermon, in the middle 
of which I stopped to go down with the farmer and prize the 
wagon out of the mire, after that I prepared 200 reports for 
the mails. Then som.e newspaper reading. After dinner. Har- 
per's Magazine — then Mrs. Ferguson's funeral services — then a 
visit to Mr. Lee, a session of the farm committee — after that 
prayer meeting and an hour with the mail. So the days fly. 

December eighth — Lord, help me, especially I pray thee help 
me to pay off this debt to Kit Young. 

December ninth — Our children have got up ten mottoes in 
the Sunday School room. Miss Pattie has nearly enough for the 
carpet. Mr. Scott has subscribed $45.00 for the pulpit and just 
now everything is ablaze for the cemetery. My salary alone is 
neglected but I am determined if they will not pay me, they shall 
pay liberally to everything else. 

December eleventh — Received Mulier's Life of Trust and be- 
gan reading it. 

March twenty-third — Thnrnwell Jacobs — Thorn well is a great boy so he is 
and everybody loves him that has seen him and knows anything a bout 
him and if they don't they oughto I don't know how any body can help 
lo\ing: him he is so sweet I believe he is one of the pretties and sweetest 
babys I have ever seen he is a year and a month and three days old, he 
was born on the fifteenth of February in the year 1877 he came in this 
world at ten o'clock that night he was a year and a month old when he 
began to walk he is as fat as a butter ball and sweet rs candy I will tell 
you some of his tricks he will walk to the tabble pull off the tabble cover 
and then he will laugh about it and one day I was washinj the dishes and 
he came to the tabble where I was and brought with bin on? of his litt'le 



202 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

December fifteenth — I think it is wrong for us to owe a cent 
and I am determined to attempt to pay off that debt at once. 
It must not grow any larger. I do hope that it will be our 
last debt and if I can watch the business it shall not grow. An- 
other thing troubles me. My dear wife has been troubled and 
low spirited and in bad health for weeks. I think she needs a 
little change. I pray the Lord to arrange it so that I can take 
her to Charleston next April, if it be His will. 

December eighteenth — I have been reading very carefully 
Muller's Life of Trust. It is a good and valuable book. But I 
think he errs in generalizing his theory too far. I do not be- 
lieve that the Lord's mind is that everybody should trust solely 
to Him. Why has He given us faculties if we are not to use 
them. In our work, the Lord has blessed those efforts that have 
been the result of prayer. He has blessed our prayerful labors. 
Ho has not blessed our prayerless labors. Thus He has taught 
ur. that praying and working go together. Muller's experience 
shows that the Lord can work without means. Mine will be to 
show that the Lord always blesses work and prayer if combined 
and proceeding on scriptural principles. These principles as far 
as I am able to decide them are: 

First — untiring activity. This not beyond but up to our 
ability. 

Second — fervent prayer. This not formal or at stated times, 
but; constant. 

Third — Scrupulous honesty. Not such an honesty as makes 
a fair balance sheet but that kind which attempts to do for the 
cause far more than the cause does for its promoter. 

Fourth — Sell-sacrifice. 

Fifth — Humility. This is as hard as any part of it. Men 
love praise. It is very hard to consent to hide ourselves behind 
others. 

Sixth — Close and devout attention to the work. I think the 
church and orphanage both often suffer because I neglect them. 

brothers tin horses and the first thinp I knew it was in my water and 
then I washed it p:ood and pave it to Minnie to wipe and then I pave it; 
to him apain and he did same apain an apain until he went a way and he 
k)ves to lfK>k at the chickens and duks and cows two we cant hardly keep 
him in the house, he has three little pearl teeth he pets a preat meny 
falls but ht pets over them very quick and is lauphinp apain I can't tell 
all of his funnie wayes We have to keep every door that poes out in the 
yard shut. He has a sore finper he has been sick a preat deal. When 
he was about too mon.'hes old he had the hooping couph and not long after 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 203 

These are, as far as my experience has yet gone, the scrip- 
tural principles on which the Lord's work ought to proceed. I 
am grateful to record, however, that there is a constant growth 
in m\ experience and that it seems to me, the Lord by his provi- 
dences, is constantly showing me the plain path to tread. 

December ticenty-i^econd — God wonderfully provides for us 
when wc: actually need it. We needed a pump but could spare 
very little money — Batchley and Co., knock off two thirds of the 
price. We needed badly a sewing machine and Mrs. Blackwood 
01 Greenville is going to send us one. We need a bell very much. 
We need a cow. Lord, thou knowest we need these things. Give 
them, to us if it be thy will. 

December twoity-seroitJi — We have tried to give the or- 
phan children a delightful Christmas and our success was com- 
mensurate with our highest wishes. First there were the won- 
derful stockings full to the brim. Then there was the big Christ- 
mas dinner and after that, at night the beautiful Christmas tree, 
followed by a romp and the next morning two funny grab 
games in each of which they got a present and at night of that 
day — the Mite Society for the children. 

December twenty-ninth — Today I am cast down in spirit 
lor the sins of this people. The fruits of years of card playing 
begin to ripen into more and more pronounced forms of gam- 
bling, such as betting, raffling, wheels of fortune and the like. 
May God give me strength to battle against these giant evils. 



that he had the pneumonia he has had a bad time in his life so far and 
he is devoted to Minnie Pitts. I believe he can talk we asked him if he 
wanted to gro to the swing- and he said yes so we thoughed I could tell as 
much more if I had time and as I have not 1 will clos3. — Nonie E. Fripp. 



CHAPTER THIRTEEN 

1878— Age 36 

January fifteenth — Yesterday we elected ''the prohibition" 
ticket in Clinton. I sincerely thank God for this and pray t^at 
we may be able to rule intemperance out of the place. 

January nineteenth — I have succeeded in nearly getting 
"Liberia," a "colored" cottage built in the woods. We also re- 
ceived from Moses Cole and Co. a nice lot of evergreens which 
we put out in our front yard and which in a few years will be a 
thing of beauty. 

January twenty-sixth — We received two new lads tonight, 
Darby and Sam Fulton. I hope they will prove to be good boys. 

January tiventy -seventh — I heard last night that Mr. Scott 
is trying to buy us a cow. 

February fourth — Mrs. Thornwell has left us. We greatly 
enjoyed her visit. Mr. Scott came in bringing a cow as a gift 
from Mrs. Sam Means to the Orphanage. God bless her. The 
reception room is now very prettily furnished. Mr. Bell thinks 
the money might have been spent better but would it have been 
honestly spent? 

F'ebruary tenth — Look back to December 22nd and read the 
prayer thus recorded. In answer God gives us a better bell than 
we then hoped for and two cows! 

March sixth — I have felt for some time greatly saddened at 

the prospects before the church. We have removed Mr. 

from the eldership, we have summoned and 

and must suspend them. We have suspended . We 

ought to suspend and . We have just dis- 
missed three members. These men are all presuming that the 
church must have their money and we must show them the con- 
trary. Lord, help me in my trying and delicate position. 



April trvelfth, 1878 — Thornwell Jacobs. Thornwell is a smart baby and a 
pretty one two I think every on? loves him I know I do I know that he 
is the sweetes baby I ever saw. He has a prreat deal sense he has g-ot four 
teeth when he was cutting them he had two spasms it frighten us very 
much and the doctor came and cut his gums could not look at him he was 
well in two or three davs he is sick at present has a hot fever and I hope 
he will be well Foon. Mrs. Jacobs taught him to sing and when you tell 
him to sing he saves ta ta ta he sounds so sweet, he can walk now but I 
am a fraid that if he gets sick so much that h° will fall back in walking 

204 



AGE THIRTY-FIVE— 1877 206' 

March seventh — Our kitchen is done. The workmen are 
dismissed. Now, I pray the Lord for funds to put up our piazza 
before the heat of summer sets in. Still I will wait on him if it 
takes years. 

March eleventh — When 1 look back over the way the Lord 
has led me, especially in the prosperity he has given the Orphan- 
age, I feel as if I could not praise Him enough. If He has found 
me bent on folly at any time, He has so blocked my way that I 
could not go there and step by step has given me wisdom to work 
out what was for the best. I have seen this so often that some 
01 my friends may have attributed to vacillation what really 
arose from seeking to know the Lord's will. When once I really 
believed that a plan was of the Lord, I was firm enough therein. 
I give a diagram of the lower rooms of the Orphanage, according 
to our present arrangement. The dotted line represents the pi- 
azza as I want to build it this summer. 

March twentieth — Thirteen years ago tonight I was mar- 
ried. I thank God for these years and for the dear, helpful, good 
woman that for these years has helped to lighten my burden. 

March twenty-fifth — God seems to be pointing me to the 
fact that for the church's good I must be an inmate of the insti- 
tution no longer than a new home can be built. 

March twenty-seventh — Sabbath next I preach our anniver- 
sary sermon. I have been here fourteen years. 

March twenty-eighth — Today our Sunday School will run 
up to 175, notwithstanding the measles in town, 127 present. I 
also had an audience of over a hundred in church. 

May second — Yesterday evening we had a successful meet- 
ing of our Brotherhood. I think it did good, having resulted in 
this at least, that Mr. Green agreed to serve as elder and we will 
proceed to elect another elder at the congregational meeting to 
be held on the afternoon of the anniversary. The aggregate of 
al! gifts to the orphanage in April was $235.00. 



The reason that he is sick so much we feed him too much. The boyes has 
got some marbhs and Thornwell likes to play with them he hadley ever 
pret to tho. Mrs. .Jacobs bouprht him a pair of shoes with heels he did look 
I can't name all of the funnie things he does so I will close about Thorn- 
well. — Mhinie Pitts. 

Fixing the church up for Presbytery. Miss Pattie and some of us child- 
ren went around the church to fix it up for Presbytery. We went on 
Tuesday to wash the window glasses. Miss Emma Watts and Nannie 
Phinney came round there to help us we had a hard lime washing the win- 
dow glasses they were the dirtiest windows I ever did see. We swept 
so funnie at first we laughed at him and he would not walk but in a few 



206 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

May ttventy-first — We have come to the verge of need and 
there is nothing coming in. Lord send us this day our daily 
bread. I have written six letters asking aid but the dear Lord 
can send it before any human help can avail. 

May tiventy-second — Oh I thank thee, blessed father, that to 
strengthen my faith thou hast done this very thing. Last night 
the bill of goods came in, and we had nothing in the treasury. 
But by the same mail came over $30.00 ^from a most unexpected 
source, being more than the special sum needed and as I believe 
in answer to an earnest prayer of mine, yesterday to this effect 
"Lord, I have no reason to hope for a cent by this mail as our 
supplies have been very few of late. I have written letters that, 
by thy aid, will, I trust bring relief in a few days but thou canst 
gloriously strengthen my faith by sending in a supply for this 
evening's need before my letters could possibly be answered." 
And He did it. 

May tiventy -seventh — Yesterday morning we had 161 pres- 
ent in Sunday School — the largest attendance I have had. 

May twenty-eighth — Today, fourteen years ago I was or- 
dained to preach the gospel. As I look back over these years, I 
sadly feel my neghgence of duty, my incompetence, my idleness 
and carlessness in the great work that God gave unto my keeping. 
Yet I feel that these fourteen years have not been unfruitful. 
My marriage, my five precious children, the growth of my 
church from nothing to a self supporting, active church, the es- 
tablishment and growth of our Sunday School with its bright- 
ening prospects, the prayer meetings, men led to lead in prayer 
and public speaking, the powerful work of God in my hands in 
the Orphanage, these j'ears at the printing press, the Clinton 
High School and library society, the establishment of the colored 
church, my meetings for the press, labors in church courts, con- 
ventions and the like, all these things come before me and com- 
fort and enocurage me. I know I could have done much more, 
especially as a preparer of better sermons, and better and more 
pastoral visiting. I pray God that I may not weary in well- 



minutes I tf>ok him and he walked by him self. The other evening IMinnie 
and I took him over to Mrs. Jacobs old house to sec the flowers and every 
cow he came to he would say niu mu mu as we were comin.c: home we cross- 
ed a bridjre and he heard his shoes and walked back again. He likes to 
stay out does and look at the cowes and pick up stickes he can't talk but 
he can make signs and if you don't go the right way he will i)ull till he 
makes you. He looks so sweet telling goodnite and kissing the children 
lh(? whole church over it was mighty hard to get the church clean. Miss 
Pattie washed the lamps very clean and nice. Mr. Tribble fixed the doors. 
Mr. Scott and Mr. Tribble painted the blinds for Presbytery. The blinds 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 207 

doing, but may rather gain courage, again to undertake great 
things for my blessed Lord. 

June sixth — I long for the day to come when having a quiet, 
pleasant house built, here on the Orphanage place, I niiiy with 
less interruptions and with more helpers, live a quiet family life 
with my children growing up around me, my church prosperous 
and time to write books. All this and heaven too! 

Jinie sixteenth — Yesterday I spent in Laurens in a pleasant 
visit to father. 

June ticetitij-first — We have now nearly enough money to 
warrant us in beginning the work on the front piazza of the Or- 
phanage. 

Jn)ie twenty- fourth — But oh the dearth of conversions! God 
i^- blessing my other efforts. Blessed Master, what does it all 
amount to if souls are not saved? Lord, convert this people. I 
pray for multitudes of precious, perishing souls. Lord, revive 
thy work. 

July third — Wonderfully is God sustaining us. Glory be to 
His holy name. Not a cent of debt except G. C. Y*s note for 
$100.00 and cash enough in hand to pay that. 

July seventh — Blessed work today for which I thank the 
Lord. Five united with the church, among them my own child 
Florence. Lord make her truly thine. Four of our orphans also 
joined and Henry Vance. Thank God! To me a pleasant day. 
My soul was in it. Dear Lord, give me more. This is but a 
taste. Lord, send me souls. 

July seventeenth — I took Mary and the children up to Fa- 
ther's yesterday and propose to spend a day of quietness for 
each day of the next fourteen ; in fact aimost too much so. There 
are only thirteen of us at home. 

August sixth — But alas, our return home was saddened by 
finding Mr. Green's house smouldering in ashes. Poor Mr. Green. 
He was with us! All he could say was, **I am ruined!" 



makes the church look so much better than it did before. Wednesday we 
round there a^ain and we swept the church over aprain. Julia and Flor- 
ence wenb over to Mr. Jacobs house and j^rot some flowers for the church. 
Julia had a hard time cleaning: the spittoons. The boys came round there 
and cleaned the yard off. the church looked very pretty when we got 
through with it. FohhiV Agucic — April the 25th. 

The Little Chickens — Feeding the chickens is my business. I have to feed 
them twice a dav. I like it very well. We have six hens with chickens 
and one with ducks and six setting. When they come off I will have 



208 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

August thirteenth — I went to see Mrs. Albright yesterday 
and got her to move her membership back to the Clinton Church. 
Oh, God, give me courage to speak to these perishing souls that 
arc Without. Members! members! I do love this work of mine. 
I love my church and wish to draw them nearer still to myself 
and myself nearer to the Lord. My soul struggles with the 
Lord for the support of these precious orphans. 

August t IV eyity- fifth — On my return home, I found our 
piazz?. complete and the workmen gone. It adds greatly to the 
comfort of the house. Mr. Scott has also returned and brought 
$75.00 in money and much provisions to come. Also lumber 
enough for our laundry and fence promised. I rejoice over this. 
Mr. Scott's services are invaluable. 

August thirtieth — I know it will not do to give way. Dis- 
couragement is the bane of old age. May the good Lord keep me 
fresh, vigorous and determined. 

SepteiJiher fourth — God has given me a very pleasant field 
of labor. There is, how^ever, one thing that troubles me and 
that is, the future education of my children. May I not trust 
the Lord who has done so much for me hitherto to provide still 
further until my life is ended and oh, then, if he will but give 
me a mansion where He is. 

September fifth — I find my health somewhat improved and 
the whole family in the same condition. But Oh! isn't this yel- 
low fever in the west, awful? 

September twelfth — Last night, Mary and I took tea at 
elder Copeland's. I was so glad to find so warm a welcome with 
a sweet kiss from both Lizzie and Jessie. I love these children. 

September sixteenth — Our collection yesterday for the yel- 
low fever sufferers was $15.00. It ought to be $50.00. Yet it 
is the largest single collection ever taken up in the church. 

September tiventieth — Today I rode to Laurens and preach- 
ed for father. We have been enjoying a visit from John Dillard 
for the past few days. I am sorry to say Mary is sick again. 



so many to feed that it will take me a lonp time to feed them. I like to 
have little pet chickens but I can't have them here. EUa Entrckin Apr. 25. 
Our Bell — When the world was made there were places all over the whole 
earth where there were beds of iron, tin and copper. This metal stayed 
there for century after century. Without anyone knowinjr it. But at lasl< 
it was found out. The p'jople used it for armor and other things. So they 
bejfan to dijc in the earth to find these metals and after a while they united 
them together and formed them in rin^^ and striking? it with a piece of 
iron they found that' it would make a rinjjin^f soun(l. They called them 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 209 

October first — Three years ago we entered the Orphanage. 
Each year the Lord has blessed us more and more. 

October fourth — We are in great pecuniary straits. I call 
upon the Master to send aid but no aid comes. Lord, let not my 
sins and faithlessness keep back from these children thy loving 
kindness. 

October iicenty-ninth — I returned last night from a trip to 
Synod at Spartanburg. The ride with Brother Green was very 
cold both there and back. My stay at Mr. Judd's in company 
with Dr. and Bro. Nail was, however, exceedingly pleasant. The 
great event of the Synod was the erection of the Presbytery of 
Enoree. Notes of this movement have been set down in this book 
from time to time. Although I was one of the originators of the 
plan, and have thought much about it, yet I have had little to do 
with its success. Although I believe I could by a few words have 
prevented it. I sincerely believe it to be for the interests of the 
Master, expecting to be prominent and active in every good work 
in it. I am elected Stated Clerk of the new Presbytery. But my 
heart is in all the works it has on hand. 

October thirtieth — On my return, I find Mary much better 
and all the children well. 

November eighteenth — Oh, how thankful to record that for 
fifteen years I am for the first time out of debt, the only balances 
against me, being of those who will be in debt to me before next 
year closes. I am grateful to God that the consummation, long 
and devoutly to be wished seems at last here and that I will soon 
be able to lay aside the shackles and get ready to give myself a 
trip to Europe and my boys a first class education. Lord, I re- 
joice in thee for this. How good, God has been to me thus far in 
prospering my way. I have had many hindrances but he seems 
to be smoothing the way before me, now that the burden of souls, 
yea and of bodies, too, begins to grow heavy upon me. I can 
truly say I do not covet riches for their own sake but I desire a 
competence and — books — that I may serve the Lord better than 



bell? and made them better and better an of different sizes, .A.fter a while 
some men in Ohio in th? city of Cincinnati united togrether and formed 
a company called Blymyer and Co. They collected larjre quantities of 
these metal.; and made bells of a great many different sizes. They put in 
a furnace and melted it and made a bell weighing about a hundred pounds 
an gave half to the Thornwell Orphanage an th° ladies of Greenville paid 
the rest. And it now calls the children to dinner and tells them when to 
stop work, — R. C. Wihon. 

Bathing — I love to bathe. We boys go down to the washold every Satur- 
day and we go to the Washold some evening after school and if we don't 
get back in time we will gej a demerit. Tommie and I haveter get back 



210 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I do. While I rejoice in God's goodness in this matter I will not 
forget to thank him for my dear wife's improving heal'th which 
is a very, very great matter to me. 

December eleventh — I do so rejoice at the improvement of 
Mary's health. The Lord has shown his kindness to me in this. 

December sixteenth — Today Kit Young called round and of- 
fered to give up his note for $110.00 if I would pay him $100.00. 
As this was a good offer and a good opportunity for the Orphan- 
age to make $10.00 I concluded to use $100.00 I had for the child- 
ren's gift fund and to meet this debt. So the Orphanage had 
paid off its last dollar of the old indebtedness. No man has any 
paper against us, thank God! 

December twenty-fifth — We are all now exceedingly anxious 
to carry our village for temperance. It is going to be a hard 
task. We have a hundred votes, about equally divided — the 
whites for temperance and the negroes nearly all against it. 

December thirty-first — Nine P. M. In three more hours the 
year will have ended. Sleep has settled down upon the family. 
Ferdie and I are alone, burning the student's oil and so I have 
drawn out this book to close up its pages. Tomorrow a new year 
and a new book will be opened. I must look back over the year 
and see what it has amounted to. 

That blessed woman ! I do not know how I could have done 
without her. She is a treasure. Her health very greatly dis- 
tresses me and it is my constant and daily prayer to my 'dea{r 
Lord Jesus, that he would spare her precious and useful life to 
me and mine. Two more hours and the year ends. Its 365 days 
have been cut off of my life. I am a year nearer eternity. To- 
night I feel that the love of Christ is a precious and glorious 
gift to me. I love thee my Master. I wonder that thou could- 
est accept such a poor gift as my wild heart, so often false to 
thee and to itself — but this I know, the Lord died for me. It is 
a glorious thought. I know not how soon he may call me to 
leave everything behind but this I know, that if He will 
only make sure to bestow on me eternal life and to see his blessed 



before any of the boys because we have to feed and milk — Johnnie. 

Fifihhfg, May twenty-ninth — All of the boys went to fishinp: yesterday 
evening?. We first went to the washold, a place near one of the heads of 
bush river where we went in a washing:. Johnnie and I did not stay lonj? 
we went on down the river and when the other boys caujfht up with us 
we had a small string of fish. Then we went on down the creek for a 
little distance when we came to a larpe Mulberry tree. We set to work 
and ^rathered our hats full which we brouffht to the girls. We gave the 
fish to Mr. Jacobs.— RCW. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 211 

person, I would not hesitate one moment to say with Paul, "To 
depart and be with Christ is far better." It is only when I am 
drawn away by a fear lest I shall not have everlasting life that 
death seems terrible. If I could but hold with irresistible faith 
that glorious proposition that Christ hath brought immortality 
to light, I would be contrite and would glorify God with thanks- 
giving. It is more than faith I want. I crave to know. I am 
not satisfied with saying "I believe" "I am persuaded" I want to 
say "I know;" to say it most intensely and profoundly. / know. 
Oh, my God, grant me this knowledge. 

And now, blessed Lord, I close the year and this book to- 
gethei-. Ail its secrets that are unrecorded here, thou knowest. 
It is my pain and my joy that thou knowest. Blot out, Oh Lord 
the errors and the short-comings. And grant large success to 
all good labors. Oh, blessed father, crown my life's work with 
success. This year crushes me with its failures. Oh, lift me 
up, Lord, lift my life higher — higher. I would be wholly conse- 
crated to thee, that I might show thy people a life hid with 
Christ in God. Lord I leave it all — all — all with thee. Where 
another month will find me I know not, but Oh, let no times, no 
seasons separate me from Thee, or dim my love, my own Lord 
Jesus, or blunt my zeal in thy causes. Grant to me to love Thee 
better, to work harder for Thee, every year and when thy work 
for me in this life is done, as it is now done in this year. Oh, give 
to me proof of my longing hope that I shall live forever and with 
Thee! No better thing ^^han this can I conceive. I crave, my 
soul cries out for it. I long, I pant after, yea yearn more than 
hart for water-brook. Lord, bless me and mine forever. Amen. 

One more has been added to our number his name is Frank Cripps. He is 
very lively and we have a great deal of fun. He, Ferdie and the calf are 
very great friends. — Flora Pitts. 

The \ew Piazza — A piazza has been built in front of the Orphanage, 
Alexander the great and Solomon of the wise built it. The honorable Charlie 
Park helped to put on the tin and dress some of the plank. A man by the 
name of Mr. Keene took the contract of the tin. — Ferdie Jacobs. August 
25th, 1878. The piazza improves the front of the house very much. 

The Wise Hen — The Orphanage has a hen that is very smart. She will 
come in the pantry to lay so as to save the trouble of bringing the eggs in 
the house. She loves to go in the school-room whether she g(x?s in to see 
how the room looks or to study we do not know as we have never heard her 
say anything about it. She is ver>' fond of the cookroom. She is a white 
hen and is very large and fat. I hope sh? will live long and be wise. — Julia 
M. Fripp. 

October eighth, 187S~Mrs. Jacobs birthday was on the 7th day of October. 
It was her 35th birthday, nearly all of the children gave her a present. 
Yesterday was the first day she had been down to breakfast for two 
weeks. She has been sick. When she came down her plate was full of 
presents, we all like for Mrs. Jacobs birthday to come so that* we can 
give her presents. — Cleo Patton. 

October eleventh, 1878 — Ferdie's birthday was on the 6th of October and 



212 DrARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

1879 

January fourth — Mrs. Owens came yesterday to ask for the 
admission of Bobbie Craig ^to the Orphanage. Is it not strange, 
the ways of Providence, that there should be one applying for 
help to us whose father so ridiculed the institution? God's ways 
are wonderful. 

January seventh — Since j^esterday our plans and purposes 
are materially altered. The Board of Visitors met last night and 
I presented my dear wife's resignation as matron. She and I 
will remain in the Orphanage for this year. During that time 
every effort will be put forth to ered; an additional building for 
our special accommodation and for the aid of a few more child- 
ren. It is the beginning of a great enlargement of the w^ork and 
will bind me yet closer to the work, to which the Lord has called 
me. We also admitted Bobbie Craig. It seems so strange that 
this little boy w^hose father was once so rich, now looks to the 
Lord alone for support through this Orphanage that his father 
esteemed so lightly. 

January eleventh — Mary still continues very sick. God 
spare her precious life to me and restore her strength fully. 

January sixteenth — I sit down to write with a bursting, 
breaking heart. Oh my God, help me. Mary, darling, Mary my 
own sweet precious wife, how can I bear this separation? Gone! 
so quickly, so unexpected. I shall — well heart beat on, but every 
beat is a sledge hammer striking pain. She died at eleven thirty 
five today. Her last look was into my eyes and then her precious 
soul went out in glory. I know she is with my Savior. . She loves 
him so. He would not forsake her in this hour. No! No! No! 
but Oh, my Lord, what shall I do? Help me, Oh, my God. I am 
failing, falling, falling. Half the world is gone out to me. 
Wherever I look some token of My Mary's love strikes me. Oh, 
my God, forsake me not in this hour. The evil that I greatly 
feared is come upon me. 

It was love that cut short the expiring breath from her 
dear lips — at the recognition of our tears about her bed. Oh, 



Mrs. Jacobs* birthday was on the seventh of October. Ferdie was sick but? 
he ffot a great many presents. He got a nic-e knife and a nice hat. He 
war. ten years old. — Aninc. 

October eleventh, 1878 — We children at the Orphanage get a gi*eat many 
hickory nuts. We have six large trees in the yard. We had more last 
year than we ccmld eat. The jrirls do not get any wallnuts but the boys go 
off and get them and in the winter when they open their boxi's they give 
thd girls some. We gather hickory nuts every day as fast as they drop. 
All of the children like hickorynuts. — Sonie Fripp. 

October eleventh, 1878 — Hickorynuts — It i.s the time to gather hickory- 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 213 

Mary, Mary, Mary how can I give thee up. Oh, my life, my love, 
I had thee fourteen years and yet I would give everything for 
one short hour's converse with thee. Pity me, pity me, my 
friends. Help me, oh, my God. She lies now in our reception 
room so sweet and still in death. She will never speak to me 
any more. 

Four days have passed since she was buried — they have con- 
tained the bitterest experiences of my life. But today I feel that 
the agony of death is past. I have suffered that which none 
but God will ever know. Her end was like 'the falling of a babe 
to sleep, so peaceful, not a gasp or struggle for breath — the heart 
and lungs just stopped their work, not even a sigh was heaved 
but she left off her hold on life and fell back to cling forever 
to her Savior's side. I feel the greatest comfort too in the 
thought that she died perfectly conscious. That look into my 
eye, the last fond look, I never will forget, as long as life lasts, 
and in eternity I will talk with her about it. I feel drawn closer 
to heaven than ever I was before. I can say **I love the Lord!" 
Yes, tho He slav me, yet will I trust in Him. 

Januarij tirentfj-flrst — I walked down over the farm today 
but I could not think in any way but this: 

Oh to be nearer, nearer 
Close in to my Savior's side; 
Leaning my head on his bosom. 
Awaiting the ebb of the tide. 

I have never felt such a still and quiet rest on the Master before 



nuts. We have not gathered many hickorynuts this year. The boys of the 
Orphanage have hickorynuts every since last year until this year. The 
hickorynuts have not begun to drop fast and that is the reason we have 
not got many. Some of the children go out nearly every evening to gather 
hickory nuts. It is a great many hickorynuts in the woods at the Orphan- 
age. — Darby Fulton. 

October eleventh, 1878 — The Orphanage — The Orphanage has improved. 
It has a piazza and is going to have a laundry room built. Mr. Scott re- 
turned from a vii-it to the country about a week ago. Tonight we are going 
to have a Mite Society. Mr. John Dill^rd came here yesterday and Miss 
Lalla Rook came yesterday, too, to see Mr.^. Jacobs. — Frank Cripps. 

October twelfth — Scott the Calf— Poor little Scott has been at the Or- 
phanage a long time doing well and growing fast. When he first came 
to the Orphanage he was a little calf and Tommie would go to hunt him 
every evening and sometimes could noj find scott. Frank came to the 
Orphanage. He and Ferdie took that business and they kept it up a long 
time till the calf went down on the wash hole and he was gone nearly two 
weeks and just got back yesterday and we were all glad to see him. — Min- 
71 ie Pitts. 

Plowing — Tommie and I were plowing all this week and D plows the horse 
and Tommie and I plow the mule. D plows everj' day. Tommie and I 
take day about. I like to plow very well Mr. Jacobs gives us ten cents 



214 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

in all my life. I feel that what I have suffered as it has brought 
to Mary eternal happiness, has wrought in me more faith and 
a deeper trustfulness in my dear Lord. The Board met last 
night and elected Mrs. Sallie Lee, Matron. I sincerely hope that 
she may accept. They passed some very kind and touching re- 
solutions about Mary. Sometimes a wave of sorrow comes over 
me, striking me down to the earth but I now have learned to 
think of Mary, not as dead, but as living. I shall see her again 
in the presence of my Savior and hers and In the better coun- 
try. Until then, I will bide near Thee, Lord. 

January twenty-third — A week ago today ! I find my exter- 
ior perfectly calm, but I have lost the zeal for the things of this 
world that once so filled me. I long to be more useful in Christ's 
kingdom to do more and better work for Him. Oh, what a sweet 
precious wife I have lost! 

January twenty-fifth — The breezes have blown gently for 
the Orphanage for a long, long time. But now there comes a 
furious counterblast from the Abbeville Press and Banner, charg- 
ing us with all manner of deceit and fraud. It would trouble me 
sadly if it were true. Blessed Master, I lay this work at thy feet. 
Destroy me or this work if so be thy will. It is thine. I am 
thine. "Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him." I am 
sometimes as full of sorrow as I can hold when I think of my 
dear, precious dead wife. Lord, help me to bear this. 

I received a check for $50.00 from Harrodsburg, Ky., last 
night. I bless God for this sign of His encouraging help. 

January tiventy-fifth — I was enabled today to conduct my 
Sunday School and to preach a very, very poor sermon which 
was almost extempore; text: Isa. 40:1. My dear wife seemed 
to rise before my eyes always. Yet I trust that in my bitter 
sorrow the Lord will help me and strengthen me for good. I 



every acre we plow. Tommie and I plow with the mot plow and D plows 
with the other kind — Johnnie E. Agnew. 

Weeks — There are seven days in a week and twenty four Hours in a day 
and four weeks in a moth and between twenty eipht and thirty days and 
thii-tv one. One month has twenty eipht and all of the other months thirty 
an thirty one. — D(irh\j Fulton. 

Potato Kilns — This week all of us boys had to get potatoes. D plowed 
and wo picked them up. Then after that Charlie made two potato kilns 
and then made- a hou^e over them tc pi-otect th:m from the cold and bad 
weather. They vill Kr-cn .ill winter and vc can have them to »\it. — Fratil: 
Cripps. 

Mr. Scott, went up lown last Saturday morninj? and bought a bucket-full 
of ajjples, they were very nice. Mrs. Jacobs gave us all three apples a 
piece. They were not very large ones but they were might good. — Fannie 
Agnew. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 215 

have now set to work once more and will set out on the journey 
of life with a determination that I shall be not alone but He is 
with me. I went out to Huntsville in the afternoon and there 
had quite a good audience. I will continue to preach there this 
year. At night, not so good a congregation. 

Jcniiunij twentu-iight — Yesterday I carried mother back to 
Laurens. She has been with me ever since Mary's release. I do 
not know what I could have done without her and yet I must do 
without one who lor fourteen years has sat and walked and slept 
by my side. Oh the burden ! the burden. Lord, I know this sor- 
row is remediless. Help me to bear it. Sweet, dear, precious 
wife — mine no longer, what would I not give for just a few short 
words from you. Her very last words to me were in answer to 
my question "Mary do you still put your trust in Jesus?" "Yes, 
yes" she said, "He is all I have to trust in, now." Oh, sweet 
blessed wife, sainted and safe. God keep thee. But my poor 
life, what shall I do? 

Januarii twenty -ninth — Yesterday I began my work for the 
Master — alas, that my zeal is born of sorrow. I find it my 
pleasure now, for the first time since I became a Pastor, to visit 
mv flock. Sometimes I have feared that God took mv Marv 
away from me because I loved her better than I loved His church. 
And, strange contradiction, in the next minute, I fear that he 
took her because I did not sufficiently lighten her burdens. 
I pray God to sanctify this great sorrow to my soul. I cannot 
realize everything. I never could. Is Mary gone? I look for 
her sweet face to look in through the door. I think surely she 
will come in soon. Every night I dream of her. God help me. 

Januarii thirtieth — It is very, very hard to get over this ter- 
rible burden. It is not that I am inconvenienced by it for Miss 
Pattie is doing her best and that best is noble, to carry on the 
work but Oh, the light that is gone out ! Mary dariing, I love you 

Mv. Scott's Return — Mr. Scott came in from his journey last Saturday 
nigrht. He brought back twi/ little pips, four chickens, four pairs of shoes 
and some other things. — Jdnics F. Jacobs. 

Xovemher iuentii-sixth — Mi.«^s Mamie Lee and Miss Carrie Pyles spent the 
night with Miss Pattie They laughed a crreat deal. I think they enjoyed 
themselve? for thiy were very merry. Mr. and Mrs. T. J. .MrCrary were 
here too. I think that his wife is very pretty. He is a good t ntle- 

man. \Vc had to sing for them. We sang Birdie's Ball. Tl.v ........ and 

nine and some other pieces. — Florence Jacohs. 

The Chicfxcuhouse — We have got a chickei ' '"■ -id Uncle Alex 

built it in two days. It is two storys high u. „...,.. l- to go to the 

second storie for the chickens. There are two long rows and one short one 
of hens nests. The bell is on the top of the ■ ' ' ■ <e. Mr. Scott is 
coming some time this week and I am very gl . ;t for I have not 



216 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

SO. I stretch out my hands to you, but you cannot touch them. I 
call to you but 3^ou do not answer. Father Almighty, my sweet 
wife is in thy keeping. I know she is safe with thee; but. Father, 
I miss her so. 

February — In my trouble, Florence, my precious little 
daughter is a great comfort to me. She comes as near as a daugh- 
ter could do to taking her mother's place. I love her even as I 
love my own soul. 

Oh, if 1 had but one half hour's talk with my darHng wife. 
I think of her every moment in the day. I dream of her all 
night. Oh, my Father, my soul , is cast down within me and 
there is no help. Irreparable. Irrevocable. Oh, my God, pity 
thy poor worm. Lord, Lord, Lord, pity me, for my soul is sore 
troubled. 

February fourth — I work on. I pray on. But Oh, the bur- 
den. It grows heavier and heavier. Oh, my God, help me or I 
perish. I walk in darkness and see no light. It is a sin, it is 
cowardice to long so to be in heaven with Mary. Oh, my Lord, 
give me strength. 

February seventh — The papers, especially in Abbeville Coun- 
ty, are after me and the Orphanage, because we have tried to 
get the people to contribute to its support. I am very uncer- 
tain as to the best course to pursue. I think I shall be compelled 
to reply and yet of all things in the world, I despise a newspaper 
controversy. The Press and Banner accuses me of fraud, etc. 
The Ninety-Six Guardian of incompetency. I know not. why the 
blessed Master has allowed this avalanche to descend upon me 
just at this particular time when my heart is smarting under 
a heavy sorrow but I know that he can make even the wrath 
of man to praise him. May he give me wisdom in this trying 
hour that I may not err. I shall, to the best of my ability, write 
out a short reply in as gentle a way as I can for the Ninety-Six 
paper. As to the Press and Banner I know not what to do for 

seen him in a p:ood while. — John Frank Cripps, April 23rd. 1879. 

The Lojindry Room — April twcntif-third, 1879 — The Orphanape has had a 

hou.se built. It is called the laundry it has and up stairs and a down stairs. 

The up stairs is made for a work shop. It had pfot a batheinp house for 

the prirls. They use it for a doll house now. It has grot six windows in it. 

?]llie James, Edd Haris and Bill Leak built it. — Darby Miildro Fulton. 

The Annirersinii — Was on the tenth of May. it was at the church wo went 
around to the church on Friday and decorated it with prarlands of cedar 
an mottoes. There were four mottoes. He leadeth me, May 10th, 1864. 
To the work, Thy kinjrdom com? and All praise to Jesus, it was over the 
pulpit. We had speeches frcm Mr. L. A. McCord, Mr. John Vounp:, Mr. 
W. E. Owens in the morninp: and from Henry Nance, Willie Bailey, Herbert 
Jame.s, Willie Harris and Mace Copeland. — Florence. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 217 

their attack is so evidently malicious and done behind my back, 
they not having sent me a copy of their paper. Now, blessed 
Master, come thou to mine aid. Without Thee, I can do nothing. 
Thou knowest, Lord, that I am innocent in the thing that they 
lay to my charge. Still, Lord, this is thy work. If it is to go 
down, well Master, it is thy will, so be it. But Oh, mv God, I 
pray Thee let not the wrath of thine enemies prevail. Thou 
knowest. Lord, that it is for thy sake I am per.secuted and that 
they speak all these things falsely against me on thy matters. 
Lord, be it even so. Thy will, not mine, my Master. Now. Lord, 
calm thou my mind for this day's work. 

Febniarii tirelfth — I have replied to the articles against 
me in the Abbeville papers. I shall not take any further notice 
of anything they may say, except to state the facts as they are, 
without any personalities. I have drawn great encouragement 
from the Scripture in this time of discouragement. I believe 
the Master is sending sorrow upon sorrow on me to drive me 
nearer the truth and to show me the glory of his Word. It 
looks as tho the burden upon me was hea\T enough — sleepless 
nights from neuralgia, the stinging falsehoods of enemies and 
my sweet wife snatched from mv loving arms. Oh, my Mas- 
ter, pity and help me. Keep me from giving up in despair. Oh, 
my portion forever, my strength faileth. It is a time of bitter- 
ness in my soul. Lord, pursue not thy worm to death. Lord, 
help me or I perish. 

Febnianj thirteenth — Yesterday w^e had rain all day and I 
spent a day in indoor work. The morning was one of unutter- 
able longing to see my dear, dear wife. The Lord will, I know, 
strengthen me but Oh, the burden. 

February fourteenth — It is exceedingly hard to get into real- 
down-right work. I fear I am allowing my heart breaking grief 
to go beyond moderation. My Master, help me. Oh, how can 
I bear this life-long separation from one that I loved better than 
I love life itself. It is irretrievable. Lord, help me to bear it. 

Yesterday was my birthday. I had a very nice time. I grot two presen^'i 
Florence pave me one and Thornwell pave me the other. — July the 9th, 1 ~ 
— Carrie Freer. 

About Thornwell — Thornwell is a dear little white headed boy with prey 
eyes. I believe every child in the Orphanape loves him. I know I love him 
dearly. I believe he loves me. I love to .«=! 'airs. Wish he calls n •■ 

He sounds so sweet he has pot such a kir r. I think I must st j' 

now — Clelia Freer — When my Mother and Father forsake me, then the 
Lord will take me up. 

We have one less in our family. God has seen fit to take from the midst 
of us one of our little boys. He has taken our little Frank up to his heav- 
enly home where he will have no more trouble nor pain. He had the con- 



218 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

February fifteenth — My little Thornwell is two years old 
today. Poor little fellow, had it not been for him, his mother 
would have been alive today. May he make noble use of the life 
purchased at such a price. 

A letter from Ripley tells me that he is going to Texas. 

February seventeenth — May the Master give me a brave 
heart and enable me faithfully to do ^my hfe's work. My dear 
friends have written letters of sympathy and consolation. Aye, 
and they do comfort but it is not such comfort as makes this 
world bright and fair or brings back the sunlight. It cheers 
me with thoughts of eternity but. oh, how desolate life is with- 
out my darling! Oh, my master, keep me from such thoughts 
as this. It drives me mad. Separated until eternity! I shall 
never see her sweet face again, her loving smile and tender look. 
Lord, Lord, help me. Give me strength to bear and give me cou- 
rage to do. 

February eighteenth — I have forgotten all this while that 
I have my children to live for. I ask the Lord to draw my af- 
fections closer to them. They are a precious heritage to me. 
Mary and I are united in them. 

February tiventy -third — Mr. Scott returned last night and 
brought $40.00 with him. He has raised on this trip $115.00 
in money besides other funds and necessaries. 

February tiventy -sixth — I received last night a letter from 
Rev. Dr. Goulding who about 1856 was my teacher for a while. 
I never had happier days than those I spent in his school in 
North Georgia. Alas, me! He wrote to comfort me. He has 
passed through the same fierce affliction. May God bless him 
and the many, many dear friends who have remembered me in 
my low estate. 

March twelfth — I have just come across an old letter of 
Mary's ending in the words: *'God bless and keep you darling 
husband till you get home. !" Oh, my beloved wife, how can I 



jestion of the brain. He was sick only three days. We all loved him very 
dearly. — Florence Jacobs, September 23rd, 1879. 

October thirtieth, 1879. — To night is prayer meeting night and all have 
gone to prayer meeting ekcept a few of us. Carrie was in study hour 
tonight. Sh'j has got well and I am glad to say Mr. Jacobs is expecting 
some new scholars soon now we are ready for them there is 25 now in the 
Orphanage with dear little Thornwell he is such a sweet little boy — Clelia 
Freer. 

Mr. Scott's return. He returned last Saturday and we were very glad to 
sec him. He is always greeted with a "hearty welcome." "Charley, his 



AGF TIIIRTV-SIX— 1S78 219 

bear this separation? Oh, my Master keep thee safely, sweety 
till I get home to thee. Mary, Mary, if I only loved the Lord 
as I love thee! 

March fifteenth — Today I am 37 years old. With my child- 
ren I went to Laurens and spent the day with Mother. I left 
them all to stay a few days, brought father home to preach for 
me tomorrow. 

March sixteeuth — I had a hundred at the Sabbath School and 
a large congregation. Father preached. The sorrow still gnaws 
away at my heart. Mary, darling, is hardly ever out of my mind. 
She was a sweet, good wife as true as steel to me and to her 
principles. Oh, if I only knew that I would know her again and 
that we would love each other in heaven ! I believe it, but faith 
is not knowledge. It seems like a long and terrible dream. 
Surely, I say to myself, Mary will came back to me! No! No! 
she and I are separated while I live. And will death restore her 
to me? I crave it as the choicest joy that ever came to me. 

It is now over two months that Mary went to Heaven. What 
a sweet, beautiful character hers was. A hundred times a day, 
I find myself thinking of her and recalling words, tones of her 
voice and actions. I did not know how tenderly I loved her. 
Dear, precious Mary, you are with our Savior. It is very, very 
selfish in me to long for you so and to w'ish you back so earnest- 
\y. But precious one, tho gone, I love you and think of you and 
dream of you. I would often and often recall things that you 
did long past, sometimes I fear you thought that I did not ap- 
preciate you but dear, precious wife, if you could only know my 
heart you would see plainly enough that you were everything to 
me. It seems a long, long time, ^lary, to have to wait until I 
see you again. There is a whole life time to come in first. Dear 
Lord, help me to be patient and fill me with a loving trust in 
thee. I know my darling is safe and happy with thee, and that is 
enough. 

March thirty-fir.st — I was reading over some of my old 

hors? has a bad sore in his shoulder. Mr. Scott is a very pleasant grentle- 
man he can lau^h at all most nothing — Florence — Nov. 6. 

Monday Mr. Jacobs set us planting out tatoe slips. I did not like it. Ben. 

Ml/ Old Home — For four years I have been one of the inmates of the 
Thornwell Orphanage and although I will leave in a few days I will always 
love my dear old home and the kind and loving friends who have left their 
happy homes fur us. For three years Mr. and Mrs. Jacobs have taken the 
care of this house upon their shoulders. They both have been a mother and 
father to us all. At the end of three years our heavenly F *^ r called her 
to join his angels choir and to receive the reward he had { ed to them 

that love him. Dear teachers you may not have your reward in this life 
but you know you will receive one in heaven — Julia Fripp. 



220 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



journals of '72 yesterday in which I was ever questioning "Ought 
I to leave Clinton?" God has settled that question for me. I 
never ask it now. 

Last week I had Elek and Charlie busy and have put up 
quite a nice poultry house for the Orphanage. Now, for the 
furnishing of the laundry and then clear the way for the Boys' 
Home. Blessed Master, help me in this. I pray thee. It is a 
great event and must needs be done for his glory. And then, 
why, we must go on then to the school and chapel room. Lord, 
thou hast called me to stand alone in this world. Help me to 
love thy church and thy cause with the added love that I felt 
for my darling. 

April tiventy- fourth — I see by the assembly minutes that 
only two Presbyterian Sabbath Schools in this state are larger 
than mine and both of these are in the city of Charleston. 

April tiventy-sixth — Today in looking over our seeds which 
my darhng Mary provided for us to the last, put up last year, 
I came across a package of melon seed that this dear, sweet mo- 
ther had put up for the States. She had written beside States' 
name on the envelope. ''Where are the reapers, Oh, who shall 
come.". The envelope was pinned with a black pin. My heart 
bleeds as I think of her, but Oh, Mary, you are with our dear 
Savior. Bright happy spirit, I love you. 

May twelfth — On Saturday last we had our 15th anniver- 
sary. It was a complete success in many respects. The church 
was decorated simply and beautifully. There were no failures 
on the part of any of our young performers. Everything went 
off well. The only draw-back was the crowd. There were too 
many people out. 

May twentij-eight — On Tuesday week I left home, taking 
Florence with me for a trip to Charleston. I was delighted with 
my sojourn there, being received with open arms. 

June — The sweet face of my darling wife is ever before me 



1880 

It is very cold weather and most all the children has had colds. It was 
just one year ajfo today since Mrs. Jacobs died. It seems like three or four 
years to us all. I hope our colds will >ret better — Miiniic Pittf<. 

Fehruai-y twentif-tliird, 1880. — Thornwell was three years old on the 15th 
day of this month. He went to Mrs. Lee and Miss Pattie, tellinp them he 
was three years old. He is ji:ettin«: so he can talk very plainly. Foolish- 
ness is done up in the heart of a child but the rod of correction will bring 
it out. — Florence. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 221 

while I write. She is never out of my thoughts. I long to be 
with her. She will not return to me but I will go to her. 

June third — Oh, Mary, my blessed one, I will never get over 
this unutterable longing to see you. My, Lord, my Lord, give 
me courage. 

Jujie fifth — The trouble with me is that I want to work up 
to high pressure gauge all the time and I find that a wearing 
business. I have always thought that the city pastor had more 
to do than the village pastor. Perhaps! I think there is work 
enough everywhere to be done. The trouble is to get willing to 
do it. I really believe that I have as much to do in Clinton as 
I ought to do. Results are not so great in the city. It takes 
more labor to bring about an equal amount of apparent success. 
And the amount of prayer is the issue. 

June eleventh — We moved up yesterday to our new home 
in the third story. I like it very much. It is a source of pleasure 
to have my children all directly under my eye. I feel as if my 
dear wife would approve and rejoice over the new arrangements 
if she only knew it. 

July fifth — This makes thirty families connected with my 
church now residing in the village of Clinton. When I took 
charge of the church there were only five. 

August first — Mr. Scott has been very busy oiling and var- 
nishing. He is making all of our old furniture look new. It 
costs the Orphanage nothing. Mr. Scott does all his work gra- 
tuitously. 

August sixteenth — Mamie and Bessie have been with me 
and helped me greatly on Our Monthly. 

August eighteenth — Our library society this year maintains 
a very sleepy existence, only five mem.bers. 

August twenty-fourth — Father is back from his Virginia 
trip much refreshed. In the meantime I have greatly enjoyed 
the visits of my three sisters. 

Be the motto what it may 
Always speak the truth 
If at work or if at play 
Always speak the truth 

Never from this rule depart 
Always speak the truth 
Grave it deeply on your heart 
Always speak the truth 

States Jacobs, Clinton, S. C. Feb. t$ 



222 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

August thirty-first — Summer ends today. Lord send me 
now the harvest. Oh, how much I miss my precious wife. Every 
time I kneel to pray the first prayer that I catch myself begin- 
ning to utter is the one that to Mary two thousand times I have 
uttered, ''Lord bless my darling wife". I try and try to over- 
come this for the oft-repeated words end in a gush of pain. 
Master, help me. Shall I never lose this sense of utter loneli- 
ness, of unutterable longing? 

September fifth — I have been very much interested in As- 
tronomical studies, all my life. And am now trying to make ar- 
rangements for a telescope. 

September seventh — Such things as this have happened to 
me over and over again these many years. Last week at each of 
the three mails, I did not receive a single cent for the Orphanage. 
It is true that we did not need the money and so this did not dis- 
may me, but on Monday morning my mind was greatly exercised 
with the longing for a future life and Satan suggested a hun- 
dred doubts. My soul was darkened. Then I prayed the Lord 
for a clearer light, asking him to give me ocular proof. I thought 
of what he said to Ahaz and then I asked that the sign should 
be that at each mail this week I should receive one letter con- 
taining aid for the Orphanage. Now it often happens thus: 
I will get eight and ten letters with money, one mail and nothing 
for several mails thereafter, but this week, tho I received letters, 
many, yet at each mail I received just one money letter. What 
a good God is mine. Lord, hundreds of times thou hast given 
me the things I asked. 

September eighth — A black day in our calendar. My pet and 
little friend, Frank Cripps was suddenly translated out of the 
world . Poor little fellow ! I loved this strange lad and will miss 
him sorely. He was a good boy and for his peace, there is no 
fear. He was a child of the covenant. For the first time death 
has entered the Orphanage. What meanest thou, Oh, Lord? 

September eleventh — Last night, way into the small hours 

March fnnrfh, 18H() — We have a nother little p:irl came to the orphanage 
and she is a little k\y\ and we were very grlad to see her. Sh? is a very 
nice little jjirl her name is Lizzie Witherspoon — States Jacobs, Clinton, S. C. 

July the tcn*h — I am ^oinff to leave the Orphanage this morning, for five 
years I have been here. I do not know how to express my thanks to the 
kind friends that have taken care of me so long'. I have learned how to 
do all kinds of work in school and out and best of all I have learned to 
love my savior. I hope I may prove my thankfulness by my actions. Worst 
of all, 1 hate ti) tidl Mr. JacMbs goodbye. He is so kind to me and I will 
always lf)ve him wherever I g«). I feel sad to leave; but I think it best. 
With mucn love l(/ all in this hou.se, I am one of the children — Flora Pitts. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX--1878 228 

of the morning I had some deh'ghtful thoughts of Jesus. 

October eleventh — The Orphanage is again in stride. Dear 
Master Help me! 

October ticentu- first — We ought to have a male college in 
Clinton. There is no good reason why we should not have it! 
It would take at least $2500. Would it not pay to spend that 
much money in getting a male college started? Can Clinton do 
it? That is the question. 

November sixteenth — Ten months ago today! Oh, Father 
what have I borne, how could I have stood this save for thy 
help! Precious Mary, thy memory is fresh — thy lov^e is ever 
with me. Hourly I think of thee, darling. Earnestly do I long 
to see thee! 

December seventeenth — I have succeeded in having erected a 
neat memorial of my darling wife in the cemetery. I am glad. 
I only wish I was able to erect a memorial of her in the heart 
of Clinton, viz: a neat and pretty library room for our village 
young men. Oh, God, help me. I may not be able to help these 
young men of myself but canst thou not help me to do this? 
Lord, open the way, I pray thee. How I long for the advance- 
ment of my people in every good thing. And yet I am hindered 
only by the paltry trifle of money. Lord send me aid in some 
manner. 

1880 

January sixteenth — One year ago today at this very hour 
I gave the last kiss to my darling Mary. Since then I have walk- 
ed alone in the sorrow of my heart, feeling that one was gone out 
of my life, carrying its light and beauty with her. Oh my Mary, 
how I long for you yet. My soul cries for her night and day but 
I find her not. Mary, I stretch out my hands to you but you sea 
them not. Lord help me to be patient and bear this burden. 
Keep back these tears. Nay, Lord, let them flow, for they purify. 

There was a little boy came to the Orphanag:9 his name is John Henry 
Brown there was also a nother little boy came to the Orphanagre his nam? 
was Chester Witherspoon. Mr. Scott is sick. Some of the boys hafter stay 
with hem every evening. I hope he will soon ^et well. — B. H. Adams. 

Christmas — Christmas has come and jfone and we have had one of the 
best Christmases that ever was. On Christmas eve we all s^ot our stockings 
ready and put them on the piano as usual, then we waited for Santa Claus. 
The next morning we were up by five o'clock and found that Santa Claus 
had been very liberal and had given us our full share of the contents of 
his bag. Christmas day seemed as tho it was the longest day in the year. 
But the hour for the opening of the Christmas tree came at last. Then — 
well it would take pages to tell all that we .''aw. A Baltimore lady had 
remembered that it was Christmas and sent each one of the children a 



224 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Enable me to devote myself wholly to thy work, to love it and 
labor for it, to put my best efforts in it, to grow daily more dil- 
igent, more hopeful, more prayerful and at length. Lord, give 
me to meet my darling in the heavens. 

January seventeenth — There are thirty five Presbyterian 
families residing in Clinton and five just out of town limits. 
There are sixty families on my visiting role. We are strong and 
yet there is a strong Baptist element here, not large but vigorous. 
It is proposed to rebuild the Methodist and to build a Baptist 
church here. I am by no means a bigot but my feeling is that 
we need neither. Of course, tho, I would be expected to say so, 
at least to think so. 

Fehruary twenty-second — The Monthly was got out today. 
The best news that has ever come to Clinton reached it last 
night. Two weeks ago I drew up a bill and a petition to the 
Legislature to prohibit the sale or manufacture of liquor in this 
town. This was received by Mr. Bell and forwarded. Letters 
were written by several of us to leading representatives and 
senators asking them to pass the bill and now the news comes 
that it is ready for the governor's signature. I sincerely thank 
God for that. Who would have thought fifteen or twenty years 
ago that this community would have come to the fore-front as 
a temperance community. It was then a whiskey community. 
The very citizens that have championed this measure were them- 
selves to a great extent, whiskey sellers. Thank God! Thank 
God! 

Miss Pattie is getting on very well with her subscription to 
paint our Sunday School building. We need from forty to fifty 
dollars. About thirty eight is in hand. 

February tiventy-fifth — I met Gov. Simpson yesterday and 
he told me that our bill to prohibit the sale of liquor in Clinton 
was signed, sealed and delivered. I feel like shouting: Three 
cheers for Clinton and the Presbyterian church. 



beautifully bound book. After the Christmas tree we played, and enjoyed 
ourselves in that way. Mrs. Fripp, Julia and Pinckney spent the day and 
nii^ht with us. We had plenty of oranpres, nuts and candies sent in. On 
Tuesday night the thermometer fell to 6 above zero and we had a snow 
Jtorm. Christmas and New Year have both gone and we have commenced 
a new y^ar. Let us all turn over a new leaf and try to do the best we can 
aj-king God to help us. — Florence, January 6th, 1881. Our motto for this 
year is "Cease to do evil, learn to do well. 

1881 

Mr. Holmes has come and he works in the farm and goes up to the col- 
lege to resight his lesson he is cutting down trees today and I hafter stay 
in today on spelling. — States — me. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 225 

Fehrnanj ticenty-cicfhth — Last night I paid a pleasant visit 
to father. I think father will soon move to James Isalnd. Ho 
is called to the pastorate of that church. I will be glad of it for 
he does want to preach so badly. 

Mis? Pattie has raised enough money for the painting of 
our Sunday School room. It was done wholly by subscription. 

March eighth — One of the greatest burdens I have to bear 
is the reviling of the Orphanage and its work by brother min- 
isters. I thank God that they speak falsely. His favor is better 
than that of men. 

March tweiity'third — We had our Deacon's court meeting 
last night. I am sorry to say that the prospect for a salary is 
very slim for this year. I pray God to give me wisdom to do this 
work whether I am well or poorly paid for it. 

Mail Thirtieth — Friday night was the anniversary (16th) 
of my ordination, and the 6th of the laying of the cornerstone 
of the Orphanage. We celebrated it delightfully by a picnic on 
the **picnic place" of the Orphanage, down in the woods. We 
had quite an enjoyable day. At night Miss Patty gave a Mite 
Society and realized enough to finish paying for the paint on 
the church. 

June fh'st — I perceive by today's paper that the General 
Assembly has honored me with the appointment of "Assembly 
Reporter". It was wholly unexpected and I am not sure but 
what I ought to add, undesired — but I shall accept it and to the 
best of my ability discharge its duties. The pav is fair, $100.00 
and traveling expenses. And if I am able properly to arrange 
for its publication, I am sure I can do better for the church than 
is now being done. It will not be for the pay that I shall do this 
but that I may get better acquainted with the donations and have 
a longer leave to operate on. There will, of course, be complaints 
about the work, but this I must bear, toughening my hide for 
that particular purpose. I am grateful to Dr. Woodrow for his 
kindness in nominating me and shall consult him about the best 
way of making the reports valuable. 

June seventh — It is now nearly time to begin building 
"Faith Cottage". I am preparing already to order all the ma- 
terial that is necessary. But Oh, my blessed father, how can 
I enter upon this undertaking without thy help. I look to thee. 
Lead and aid me. Lord. This thou canst and wilt do. Oh, for- 
sake not thy servant now. 

June thirteenth — We are gratified and pleased by another 



226 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

visit from Mrs. Dr. Thornwell. She came up yesterday and will 
spend four or five days with us. 

Atlnnta — Sunday. 

This morning I went to the Central Church Sunday School. 
I noticed some things to commend, viz — good responsive reading, 
considerable interest in the lesson and many really old persons, 
besides much good and effective teaching .... I am going over 
to Chattanooga this afternoon. I regret greatly the necessity 
and wish the R. R. authorities would delay our train till to- 
morrrow, but as it will give me the opportunity of hearing a ser- 
mon tonight, I will not greatly object. I know it is not best to 
use any part of God's day for travel — but the reasons to my 
mind for going are stronger than those for staying. Here am I 
in a strange city, at a great hotel. If I don't go this evening, 
I must turn back tomorrow. And we have already had all the 
morning services and will have the night services in Chattanooga. 
I believe the Master would say, "go". He is not a hard taskmaster 
and would not require me to stay behind subject to all the incon- 
veniences that would arise. 

6 P. M. All my sophistries would not do. Conscience was 
argued down and argued itself up and so here I am. 

July Seventh — Faith Cottage fund is now $980.24. Lord, 
this week please make it $1000. 

July tiventy-eight — Today was the 25th anniversary of our 
church. In the morning of it our first work was a Session 
meeting to receive three more to the Communion, three precious 
new converts — all dear friends of mine. Then came the. memor- 
ial services, including the history of the church, which was well 
received. After that busy preparations for and finally the lay- 
ing of the cornerstone of Faith Cottage and service again at 
night. It was a good day, and God blessed us in it. May He 
still continue to be with us and bless us. Today's work brought 
the membership of the church to exactly one hundred and fifty. 
This is very gratifying. Our 15th anniversary brought it ex- 
actly to one hundred. Will it take ten years more to make it 
two hundred? I pray God, not. This meeting and the cir- 
cumstance of the day have bound me yet closer to the village and 
the church of Clinton. May the dear Lord bind me closer still. 
The meeting goes on today. 

July Thirty-first — I received the minutes of the Assembly 
last night and I am glad to note that in the whole Synod of 
South Carolina only one church received more members than 
ours did last year and there is only one larger Sunday School. 
I think this is a profound cause for gratitude. 



AGE THIRTY-SIX— 1878 227 

August 7}intli — I have just received an insulting communi- 
cation from Rev. J. L. Martin, reiterating his charge that the 
Orphanage is a humbug and a swindle. I am of course greatly 
pained by it but God has so greatly blessed my labors of late 
that it was needful that I should be taken down a bit lest I should 
glory above measure. Just see what God has done for you this 
past twelve months. 

First, he has added thirty members to your church. 

Second, Among these your own son. 

Third, He has supported the Orphanage nobly, putting more 
funds in your hands than ever before for the care of the child- 
ren. 

Fourth, He has given you $1000 for Faith Cottage and $500 
additional for the endowment. 

Fifth, He has blessed and enlarged the Sabbath School, crown- 
ing your efforts to give it a home with great success. 

Sixth, He is now prospering the plans for the building of your 
mission chapel. 

Seventh, He has enabled you to buy a new press for *'Our 
Monthly'' and has enlarged its sphere of usefulness. 

Eighth, He has honored you by your election of Reporter to 
the General Assembly. 

And now perhaps He would like to add his blessings by 
giving you this thorn in your side; for it is written "Woe unto 
you, when all men speak well of you !" Heavenly Father, help 
me to be patient under this cursing of Shimei and reckon it 
also to me for good. 

September twenty-second — Monday afternoon, the 11th was 
a bright day in the annals of Clinton, inasmuch as it gave to 
this city the beginning of a college. Prof. Lee was directed to 
organize the first of his college classes, and steps were taken 
looking to the improvement of our college buildings and in time 
to the erection of another. We propose to get up a regular col- 
lege charter and to start with the intention of educating our 
young people to the best we can do. There is no intention of 
nursing opposition to any other college. While we want a 
college good enough for anybody's children, it is especially for 
our own that our little college is set on foot. May God speed 
the work. 



1 



228 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

October Tiventieth — God is blesing our various plans for 
work. Faith Cottage is slowly growing, Clinton College is 
working its way right into the hearts of the people. May God 
the ever loving, keep us in memory. 

October Twenty-second — I need thee, Lord, to keep me in 
heart. Give me grace to trust in thee with my whole soul and 
to do well the work that Thou hast ^given me to do. The Lord 
has enabled me to carry out every one of the plans I agreed to 
ask for last October and to do even better in every perticular. 
The number of children may now be 25; $500 was raised for 
the endowment; $1075 for the Boy's House. I have put in a 
good job-press and the college has been started. 

November Twentieth — I have been much disappointed in 
not getting to Synod but it was caused by the L. R. R. which 
failed to run and so to carry me. It was no fault of mine. 

December seventeenth — I had a delightful visit to Char- 
leston and James Island. Florence and myself and Etta Lee 
went down on the 6th and were gone ten days. Most of our 
time was spent with father and they made the occasion a delight- 
ful one, one that was full of youthful pleasure. 

I returned to find a great pile of letters waiting for me. 



CHAPTER FOURTEEN 

AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 

What a solemn thing it is to start out on a new year of 
labor. So do I pray to my Lord to guide the frail bark of my 
life steadily to the desired end. Two years ago this month He 
turned down a delightful leaf of my life and bade me walk alone. 
Precious wife! As the years drag on, I miss her more and more. 
There is hardly a night that I do not dream of her. It is al- 
most impossible for me to keep her from my prayers. 

January sixth — A poor little outca^ orphan girl with plead- 
ing eyes, forlorn face and frost bitten feet was brought to the 
Orphanage today. She was twelve years old, did not know one 
letter and had never been to church. She had been and was lit- 
erally an outcast. God pity the child. 

Janvarv twelfth — The glorious news comes to us that Lau- 
rens C. H. has gone dry! That sweeps whiskey out of Laurens 
County. 

January fifteenth — I sold my house today and will endeavor 
in the course of this summer to do still better work in having a 
good, nice dwelling built, and everything in better order. I have 
bought the lot, corner of Centennial and Broad and hope to put up 
a handsome dwelling. 

JnnunrK twentieth — For a week we have received hardly 
anything for the OrDhanage. Dear Master, forsake us not. We 
havp row rnt $115.00 on our college building. We must make 
it $.^00 00 this vear. The w^ork on Faith Cdttage is moving on 
slowlv but satisfactorily. 

Januarit twenty-third — God blessed our Orphanage by 
sending ns S75.00 on Friday and Saturday. Ripley was married 
on the 20th. God bless the lad. 

Januarii twentn-seventh — I have been considering the best 
method of building for our college and I am convinced that we 
should have a college sure enough. Indeed and in truth it must 
be a college. And to that end. there must be a college building. 
In the course of a short while I will propose a ten thousand dol- 
lar building to start on. 

Fe'ruary eleventh — Last night $32.00 for the Orphanage 

229 



230 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

for which I praise God. I am now endeavoring to select a plan 
for my own house, which I trust will be successfully carried out. 
I long to have a neat pretty house of my own, one that will suit 
my family and all my future years. I also wish a comfortable 
little farm from which a partial support may be drawn, and 
then I think I will be prepared to do a little literary work for 
the Master's service. 

Febricary tiventy-second — I write for the first time in this 
journal in this new room in Faith Cottage. Leaving my room 
in the girls' home gives me a pang, although I am delightfully 
situated here. I begin to realize to what an extent I have had 
my time frittered away by living in the sitting room of the 
large family and endeavoring to do my work. I shall now en- 
deavor to get back to the life of a zealous and prayerful student 
that I once lived. Oh, God, bless me in this house. 

February tiventy-fifth — My quarters in Faith Cottage en- 
able me to do much more efficient work than hitherto for the 
church and all other institutions. I am delighted to record a 
donation of one hundred dollars for Faith Cottage which will 
finish up the whole of it and leave me with a little cash in hand 
for which I gratefully thank God. This week has brought us 
$160.00. 

March fifteenth — I am 39 years old today. 

March tiventy -eighth — I rejoice at the blessing that God has 
permitted me to extend my labors since our 25th anniversary; 
Rockbridge chapel begun ; Faith Cottage begun and finished ; 
Clinton College organized and work on it begun. Lord, still 
further help in this work. 

March tiventy-ninth — But, oh what anxious toil if all this 
is to stand ! What pastoral visiting, what conversations, what 
study, what ministerial labor! Oh, my Master, help me lest I 
fail. 

April nineteenth — Last night I think the first steps were 
taken toward organizing Clinton College. I submitted a plan to 
my Board of Deacons which seemed to meet with hearty concur- 
rence. We meet on May 19th to discuss it and I would not be 
surprised to see it an accomplished fact within, well say, three 
years from now, the 20th anniversary of my ministry in Clin- 
ton and in time for my boys to enter. As yet, I have not a 
good name for it. I want it to be an institution to do more for 
my church than even this Orphanage has done and the Orphan- 



AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 231 

age is a wonderful help. I know I cannot carry out this work 
without the hearty cooperation of the members of my church 
and the blessing of my Almighty Father. I pray him to put 
it in the heart of my people cordially to cooperate with me iv 
this great undertaking. 

April ticetitieth — Sixteen years ago, my darling Mary and 
myself were united in marriage. Sweet wife, how I long for 
thee ! 

May eighth — Tonight I am with father on James Island, 
near the great Sea. On Sunday I preached twice for father, go- 
ing to private houses as the church was closed for repairs. 

May eighteenth — I have begun work on my house but for 
some reason I do not take the pleasure in it that I would if it 
were for some suitable purpose connected with the Orphanage. 

Jioie — Last night I was able to praise my God for an ex- 
ceedingly generous donation to our endowment fund. Mrs. Cy- 
rus McCormick of Chicago, 111., sent us one thousand dollars. 
This is a delightful beginning to this journal. I have now a 
strong hope of reaching five thousand dollars shortly as the 
total of our endowment for this gift brings it up to $4,325, a 
sum which will support from its interest, four orphans. 

June fourteenth — The Baptists are to organize a church 
today. They occupy my house of worship. I hope they will do 
good even to our church. 

June twenty-first — It will be necessary for me to work hard- 
er than I ever did before to secure the foundations of mv church. 
The movements to establish two new churches at Clinton un- 
settles the members. It almost creates a panic. But God in 
his mercy will in the course of a year of two bring us out bright- 
er than ever. Now, our church succeeds because it is the only 
church. Hereafter it must succeed because it is the best church. 
I am determined to throw my efforts around the college and 
Orphanage. They are to be the bulwarks of Presbyterianism 
here, in giving me a Sunday School, prayer meeting and congre- 
gation. 

June twenty-eighth — A magnificent comet is flaming out in 
the north with a tail some twenty degrees long.* 

June Thirtieth — I am getting on very nicely with the build- 



*As a little child of four years of age my earliest memorv is that 
of beiner lifted in the arms of some of the older children so that I mijrht 
view this beautiful comet. — Editor. 



232 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ing of my house. The frame is up. I think I will be able to 
finish it by dint of close economy. 

July fifth — Out Baptist brethren are coming in with a rush 
of waters but God will help me for all that. But why will not 
God bless the Baptists too? He will if they are nearer to him 
in heart and in life than we are, tho we be nearer to him in the 
form of church life. But I believe it to be for God's highest glory 
that his Presbyterian work here should prosper. And if we do 
our duty, he will more than bless us.^ Ought we to fear when 
there are in Clinton 130 Presbyterians and only 25 Methodists 
and Baptists combined. 

July ninth — I was pained and shocked today by hearing of 
the death of Eliza, Mary's oldest sister. 

July seventeenth — On last sabbath I was at Old Fields at 
Eliza's funeral. 

July nineteenth — I have today sent to the printer the- draft 
for 500 circulars which I wish to have sent to as many persons 
asking for money for the building of our Orphanage academy 
for which $5000.00 will possibly be needed. 

July twenty- fifth — Mr. Bell and myself went out to Rock- 
birdge chapel. I preached the first time in the new building 
to a fine congregation, from the text : "Let all the Angels of God 
worship Him". 

My field here is becoming very much complicated with the 
Methodists and Baptists. 

August Fourteenth — This morning 115 at S.S., 100 at church. 
My people seem to stand by their church. Find some encourage- 
ment and hope that the efforts to crystalize opposition to the 
Presbyterian church will not succeed. I am truly sorry that the 
Methodists and Baptists are so determined to storm this Presby- 
terian citadel. 

September twenty-first — Mr. Scott has returned from his 
trip for the Orphanage and is bringing good supplies of pro- 
visions, money, etc. 

The President is dead. 

September twenty-seventh — Money comes in slowly for the 
Orphan's Seminary, much more so than I would wish. But as I 
sit at the window of Faith Cottage and look out this evening I 
take courage. God has prospered this work and He will prosper 
it. Faith Cottage was built so very easily. The Seminary will 



AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 233 

be far harder to erect and maintain. Give me courage, Lord. 

October — The violent onslaught of vvorldliness in the ways of 
"promiscuous causes" that I cannot reach, because my session 
all approve of it and the determination of the Baptists to flood 
Clinton, all give me intense anxiety. 

October fourteenth — A funeral, a Ball and a Prayer meet- 
ing, all the same day and all maintained and kept up by the Clin- 
ton Presbyterian Church. Lord pity! The dancing school flou- 
rishes. The prayermeeting languishes. 

November — I have spent the last six or seven days away 
from home, attending the meeting of the Synod in Columbia. 
They honored me by putting me in the Moderator's chair. 

Mrs. Lee resigned her position as Matron and we are now 
hunting a new one. Dear Lord send us a faithful and efficient 
woman. Our fund for the Orphans' Seminary reaches $330.00 
My hope is that by the opening of Spring we will be able to 
begin operations. 

Our Presbyterian denomination in ten years 1871-1881 has 
increased from 87,000 to 122,000. A gain of 35,000, nearly 45 
percent. 

November seventeenth — Much work to do. Lord, keep me 
in a frame of mind to do it. We are in great Straits for aid in 
the Orphanage. I pray the Lord not to forget us. 

November twenty- first — We are enjoying a visit from Mrs. 
Thornwell and her daughter, Mrs. Anderson. We have $350.00 
for the Orphans' Seminary. 

November twenty-fifth — We are much behind in getting out 
our circulars. We lack stamps to get them off. 

November twenty-eight — I had a fine day yesterday. And 
the Sunday School, one hundred and forty were actually pres- 
ent, and the exercises moved on well — so well tha^ Dr. Shands 
gave us $5.00 to help the school, he was so pleased with it. 

My heart is sorely puzzled about the Orphanage. We need 
supplies. We need a matron. We need aid for the building. 
Lord, help! 

December — The topic now is "steeple". The Baptists have 
raised theirs to the height of 68 feet. Ours will go to 75. 

December seventh — Last night our ladies gave an inert- 



234 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

tainment for the steeple. It was a success. $88.00 was raised. 
I received while there $25.00 for the Orphans' Seminary. I was 
also greatly strained on the question of our college. These 
Baptists are the cause of it. I see, they want a finger in the 
pie. But the college will be built without their help and en- 
couragement. So help me God and keep me steadfast. Oh, Mas- 
ter, wilt thou call me to the wars, all the days of my life. Help, 
me, Oh, God. Give me $100,000 for the Orphanage, that I may 
set myself free to work for others works thou has set for me. 

December eighteenth — Yesterday was a day of mercies. Our 
Sunday School is now fully recovered from the Methodist at- 
tack and bracing up for what the Baptists may do agains^t us. 
At Sunday School 140 and very full congregations, both morn- 
ing and night. I was encouraged. 

Dece^nber tiventieth — My work goes on, on my house. I am 
digging a well and building a chimney. 

December tiventy-eight — Christmas is over. To our child- 
ren it has been a gala time. I worked hard with Miss Pattie 
and Mr. Scott to give them as good a Christmas as usual and I 
think it was much enjoyed. And now I am exceedingly busy 
working to clear up the year's business: mail, printing office, 
etc. Yesterday I sent off 65 letters! This is the largest mail 
I ever sent off of letters written at one time. God has wonder- 
fully blessed our last \dt of circulars and brought us in five 
hundred dollars for the support. 

1882— Age 39 

January — Thank God for the New Year. I enter upon it 
with eyes forward. The past, especially the past year has not 
been altogether a loss. Oh, I thank God, No! During the year, 
I have worked hard and done much. I have carried on my 
church work, occupied Faith Cottage, dedicated Rock Bridge — 
improved our Sunday School Institute, started the ball for church 
improvement and received twenty members, raised $5,000 for 
the Orphans, built my own house, moderated synod, Clerk of 
Presbytery, edited Our Monthly and I don't know what all 
else. Indeed the year has been fruitful and I am full of thanks- 
giving to God. Already the year has begun. The sabbath preach- 
ing is over, the first session, Deacons Court and Orphanage 
Board meetings have all been held, the first essential step taken 
to begin the building of the Orphans' Seminary, the first prayer 
meeting or prayer held, our New Matron, Miss Annie Starr has 



AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 235 

begun her official duties, my salary is all arranged for the year 
*82 and the start to pay is made. I thank God and press on. 

January sixth — We have resolved to go to work on the Sem- 
inary building. 

January eight — My Sunday School was full today, 173 pres- 
ent. In addition, the Congregation was large and encouraging 
and yet this Mr. Broaddus' first "opposition sermon". Lord, I 
leave all in thy hands, only help me to be faithful and to do my 
whole duty. I am indeed thankful to God for sending such a good 
matron to us as Miss Annie Starr. It is none other than the 
Lord's guiding hand. He is surely with our work and I adore 
him for it. Prospects are brighter for our college. We will 
soon have a senior class. 

January twentieth — I have been very busy with my pen for 
several weeks, writing one hundred letters every week. This 
means blessings from the Father of our Orphanage. The work- 
men also have been engaged on my house, so occupying for some 
time. It will soon be completed. My plans are to get it done 
by the end of the summer so that I can live in it; to complete 
so as to be able to occupy it the Orphans* Seminary; and to 
arrange for a refectory — including Dining Hall, store room and 
kitchen ; to open out all four of these establishments before 
1883 is done. Oh, Lord, help me in this work. Great things 
are to be accompished. By thy strong right hand it may be 
done. Lord show me the way. Lead me into it and bless me 
in the doing of it. 

January twenty-second — The work is not ruined yet with 
all my ignorance and weakness. I thank God for that but 
I am a man of forty years of age, hope for as much in the next 
twenty as the Master has given me in the past twenty. Yet will 
I seek for it, labor for it, pray for it and trust God that the next 
twenty years will bring a rich harvest. 

January twenty-cic/ht — Busy all day, getting out Our Month- 
ly. We had an awful scare about Bessie Long. Thought she 
had disappeared but found her hid away with a fit of blues 
on. Poor child. She is to be pitied but I trust won't do so again. 

January twenty-ninth — This morning God was good to me 
and gave me a good and pleasant day. At Sunday School 150 
persons were present. At the church servises the room was full 
and it was difficult to get a seat. 

February fifth — We have agreed now, touching the 



236 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



Orphans' Seminary. Its location is fixed, the style of building 
is agreed upon — rock is being hauled and there is nothing to do 
buu press on the work to completion. May the Master give us 
his help, therein. 

February twelfth — Our Sunday School yesterday was a full 
one, 170 scholars and teachers out and a splendid morning con- 
gregation. Broaddus preached at the same hour with our ser- 
vice. Today we staked off the ground for the Orphans' Sem- 
inary. 

February sixteenth — I will soon be forty. I suppose I may 
reasonablv count on several years yet in which to serve God. I 
want to fill out a pastorate to fifty years. That will require 
thirty two more years. I have finished my 18th. Lord make 
me in labors more abundant, even to the end. Thirty two years 
more would put me only 72 years of age and to the year 1914. 

March thirteenth — I had a very fine congregation, both 
morning and night and just a splendid Sunday School of 180 
persons present. Thus far the preaching by Mr. Broaddus seems 
only to increase my congregations. 

March fifteenth — I am forty years old today. The only sad- 
ness about it is that the shadows henceforth are to lengthen. 
Nevertheless I am prepared to make the last half of my life green 
and vigorous . . . Just twenty years ago I wrote ''Twenty years 
hence my name may be forgotten upon earth." I look forward 
with no such fears now. I may reach 60. I may reach 80. 
That is all with God, but this I am purposed, that whether my 
name be forgotten or not, God's glory shall be advanced by the 
next twenty years of my life. 

March nineteenth — I had 184 at Sunday School today and a 
church that was full to overflowing. I have a splendid field of 
labor. How well repaid for my choice of years ago to die in 
"poor little Clinton". 

March tiventieth — My congregation last night was a mem- 
orable one as it filled the house to overflowing. 

Axtril sixth — I think it is now an ascertained fact that our 
church is to be entirely renovated and put together in new style. 
The dear old bell will have to go up higher. Indeed the church 
will be so changed that we will not know it. Lord, help and bless 
me in this work of beautifying and repairing thy sanctuary. I 
shall trust and trust and so the work will be done. 



AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 237 

April fourteenth — We have built the concrete walls of the 
Seminary to the level of the sills. 

April twenty-fourth — A dozen or more of my members were 
at the new Baptist Church, which was opened for the first time 
today. They also organized their Sabbath School. There are 
now three Sabbath Schools in Clinton and yet I am glad that 
my school was as full as the house could hold, 161 present. The 
school is really better than it was before. 

May eight — I was busy as could be with our new pulpit. I 
thank God the work is done. 

May fourteenth—Saturday, the anniversary exercises took 
place. The program was a great success. Five or six hundred 
persons present. In the afternoon of the same day, the corner- 
stone of the Orphans* Seminary was laid. There were many 
delightful occurrences in our church in the way of rehearsals, 
etc. Also w^e were helped on Sunday. There were 200 persons 
at Sunday School and a full congregation. 

May eicihteenth — Last night the Baptists made a dead set 
to get possession of our college. They failed in the first assault 
and are now^ renewing their preparations for an attack. I never 
knew it possible for such impertinent, bigoted people to exist in 
?. Christian country as this. Broaddus and two or three like him 
with whom he is surrounded. Lord, help me to keep my temper. 

June twenty-sixth — My services today encouraged me great- 
ly. At church I had fully two hundred and we had two hundred 
at Sunday School. Minnie and John Wren have arrived and are 
for the summer occupying my house. 

July tiventy-second — The Baptists dedicate their church to- 
day. I do not preach this morning, so that all may be together 
in the service. 

July thirty-first — Today, Nannie Vance, sweet child, gave 
herself to Christ. My heart is glad. I had prayed for her so 
fervently. 

August twentieth — Our college has at last received its char- 
ter and is now legally authorized to confer degrees and to do any- 
thing else that a college is empowered to do. Before we can 
become a first class institution, we are necessarily compelled to 
get up some new buildings. Lord help and bless my various ef- 
forts for the honor of thy holy name. We need thy glorious 



238 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

power at our back. Lord, all this work is built on prayer and 
thy strong arm. Stand by me that I perish not. 

August tiventij-fifth — My trip to Presb}i:ery was a pleasant 
one, but short. Went up to Piedmont on Thursday and cams 
dow^n on Saturday. We had a delightful and successful meet- 
ing, fully and carefully dispatching our business. I was elected 
corresponding member on behalf of the Southern Presbyterian 
Historical Society. That reminds me that I hope some daj^ to get 
up a full history of the Presbyterian Church of Laurens County. 

September — The equinoctial gale sweeps over us today. No 
services anywhere in town "much water there." Perhaps a good, 
quiet, rainy sabbath will do the people good. 

September tiventy -third — I have to record with a thankful 
heart today that on last evening, as the sun went down the last 
stone was laid in the w^alls of the Orphans' Seminary and so six 
months arduous work drew to a close. Oh, Lord, with a heart 
full of eternal gratitude I thank you for this. But Master, two 
thousand dollars are yet to be raised. Oh, give me this sum. To 
me this is much. To thee it is nothing. Now, Lord, open the 
hearts of the people in behalf of this work and help me more 
than ever before. 

September twenty-third — I have at last got a man for Faith 
Cottage. Mr. Jim Whaley takes charge and it is my hope and 
prayer that he will prove a good and useful helper in this work. 

October eight — We have summed up our receipts for the 
past year and find that for all purposes God has placed in my 
hands for the Orphanage $6000.00 and for the church $2000.00. 
Thus there has been $8000.00 spent for the furtherance of his 
Presbyterian work in Clinton, last year. This is the best year 
we have ever had. 

October fifteenth — We bade farewell to Miss Annie Starr 
this week and at the close of the week received Mrs. Boyd. We 
now have the Orphanage manned once more in full by good and 
efficient officers. I am thankful to God and pray that his bless- 
ing may rest upon the Orphanage. We now have a family of 
forty-three. The work continues to progress. Possibly God 
meant for me at no very far future day to devote myself wholly 
to this institution. Of that I cannot say. Indeed I would feel 
it the greatest trial of my life to give up my church unless indeed 
I could preach regularly in the Seminary chapel. I have no 
wish to leave my church but the thought sometimes comes to 



I 



AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 239 

me that the church might want to leave me. This indifference 
to my support is an indication of it to my mind. Although I 
must say that last year the salary was })etter paid than for years 
but then the church was better able to pay it. I do not complain 
of the amount for I know that more than half of my time or at 
least half, is given to the Orphanage. 

November — Begins with a chill wind, pressure of business 
and some heavy discouragements. Lord, thou hast also given me 
blessings. Help me to see them. 

November seventeenth — I have moved to my own home and 
matters are gradually getting into the new groove. I think it 
will work well after a few more months of trial. I have my 
study a long ways off from my house. But after all, it may be 
best, Lord make it a blessing to my children. 

December tiveiity-fifth — My congregation yesterday voted 
me a larger salary, promising to pay me hereafter $800.00 in- 
stead of $600.00. This will enable me to live much more com- 
fortably for which I give thanks to God and the brethren. 

I have done over much routine work. I have had too much 
war with the Baptists. Still, on the whole, the year has been a 
bright one and given me continual occasion for thanksgiving. 

1883— Age 40-41 

Looking forward into the new year, I have need of grace. 
The years with me now move on swift as an arrow and life tends 
downward to the grave. But thank God, there is a future after 
the door is opened into the black earth. For that future, I am 
living and working. 

January tenth — Church, Orphanage and College — these 
three. 

March twenty- first — I have recently enjoyed pastoral vis- 
iting very much and always would do so were it not for over- 
coming the inertia of the start. 

Eternal labor is the price of success — I have enough in my 
church alone to keep me busy, let alone this orphanage. Lord, 
help me to succeed. 

April — Presb\i;ery has adjourned. It was a good meeting. 
God has blessed our work for the year past. I was privileged 
to introduce Sam Fulton to Presb\i:ery and he was received as 



240 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

a candidate for the ministry. I also baptized Willie Lee Holmes, 
son of A. R. and Mollie Clatworthy Holmes, the first child of 
one of our orphan graduates. He was baptized in the closing 
prayer of Presbytery. 

April tiventy- first — I have had visits this week from father 
and also from John and Minnie Wren. We have succeeded in 
getting some beautiful views of the Orphanage made. I will 
have them sold in sets — Oh, that God would help me to erect a 
first rate college building in this town. 

May — For the period between my 20th and 25th years I 
have fixed on two considerable undertakings beside some smaller 
ones. First, the erection of a handsome edifice for the instruc- 
tion of young men, let us call it '^Makemie College" in honor of 
the founder of Presbyterianism in this Union, who organized 
the first Presbyterian Church of America in 1684. Possibly we 
could get aid from abroad with such an idea as this. Second, 
the increase of the endowment of the Orphanage to §25,000 and 
possibly the erection of buildings to enable us to take one hun- 
dred children. Lord, help me to do all this, I pray for thy holy 
name's sake. 

June seventeenth — Our new church building is progressing 
very nicely and it will be very greath^ improved. The Chapel 
of the Seminary will also be finished this week and we begin 
putting in the pews. Our hope is to be ready for the Com- 
mencement which will take place in two weeks — our first — and 
it will do more to give it the eclat of a college than all we have 
hitherto done. I shall then make a desperate attempt to get up 
a college building, one that will be cheap but thoroughly built — 
put up of concrete, three stories. We have three graduates at 
this commencement, Florence among the number. We hope to 
have Col. Ball to deliver the Commencement address. Just two 
years ago (see first page of this journal) I set down seven reso- 
lutions as among my plans for the time ending now, and Lo, 
what hath God wrought. First, Rockbridge chapel is complet- 
ed (enough to occupy) and dedicated. Second, the large school 
building (much larger than I then proposed) for the orphans 
is nearly completed and the total inmates increased to nearly 
fifty. Third, the college has been organized. We are about to 
have its first commencement. The hall has not yet been built. 
Fourth, my own dwelling is erected and I am in it. Fifth, I 
trust I am nearer to my people than ever before. Sixth, I have 
not only infused the spirit of church embellishment but the new 
building is far advanced to completion. Seventh, my church roll 



AGE THIRTY-SEVEN— 1881 241 

stands at 170 instead of 150 proposed. Lord, I give thee 
thanks. Help me to go forward. 

Oh, that God would increase my church membership to 200. 
Blessed Master, help me. 

Jul}/ — We have at last got through a hard worked, busy 
week. It was great labor to get the Seminary ready for Com- 
mencement. On Thursday we had a great gathering. Col. Ball 
delivered the address and the first diplomas were given, the first 
of all to my own daughter.* 

July twentU'ninth — On Saturday the Orphans' Seminary was 
dedicated. The same day 28 years ago our church was organiz- 
ed. It is also the third anniversary of the cornerstone laying 
of Faith Cottage. Lord, bless this work. 

October — Our birth day is passed. Gov. Hugh S. Thompson 
came up last evening. We met him with a heaily welcome. The 
Seminary Hall was handsomely decorated with \vreath?^ and 
garlands and the words "Welcome to our Governor" over the 
stage. We had a full and appreciative audience. Gov. Thomp- 
son gave us a splendid speech. He was very complimentary to 
me. I never expected when years ago this work was started, to 
receive the plaudits of a Governor on the platform of the Or- 
phans' Seminary. I was ashamed and hung my head and then 
plucked up courage and retaliated by praising the Governor. 

October ticentii-niiith — Mr. Broaddus leaves Clinton. 

Xovember third — A bright and beautiful day. At 12 M. I 
knocked off work on the Orphans' Seminary, discharging all 
hands. Henceforth all work done there will be charged as re- 
pairs. The building is a very pretty one. Oh how gratified I 
am to my dear Lord for the $5,000 He has put into my hands 
wherewith to build it. It gives to the Orphanage and to Presby- 
terianism in Clinton, a tone that nothing else could. How I 
wish that I could now start our college building. We might as 
well strike out in dead earnest for it. But there is $400.00 
worth of work to be done on the interior of our church before 
it is done. Lord, help me! Oh, how many ten thousand times 
have I uttered that prayer: Oh, Lord, help me. 

November twenty-fifth — It is now my purpose and plan to 
make a new start with the college building. I propose that the 
cornerstone shall be laid on May 28th, 1884, the 20th anniver- 

***Billy" Ball, who later became one of South Carolina's most dis- 
tinguished authors and editors, was pr<s( nt as a little boy, with hi?; fathtr 
on this occasion — Editor. 



242 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

sary of my pastorate, for a nice college building to cost not less, 
when completed, than $5,000 and which will be an ornament to 
our town. I hope to get the outside up and sash in for $2,000, 
the walls to be built of concrete and to be two stories high with 
a third story of brick or wood. I intend trying to get money 
enough to buy an additional one half acre of land to put it on 
this winter and to get the rock hauled next summer and if pos- 
sible, some part of the work begun. My plan will require me 
personally to get us this subscription list and it will also demand 
the invention of some plan by which we can arouse the enthu- 
siastic interest of our people in it, at least to the extent of ex- 
citing the people to hold a meeting each month to push it. 

December — The above and other plans of less consequence 
in addition to what comes on me daily must be attended to. 
God help me to receive not less this month than $300 for the 
support fund, $200 for the endowment, $150 for the furnishing 
and $100 for the building besides $100 in the office! $850. 
It seems a large sum but we have received it in previous Decem- 
bers and I do not see how we are to get on without it. 

December tenth — Thus far in December which hitherto has 
been our harvest-month, we have received almost nothing for 
the Orphanage. I am greatly distressed about it. Up to this 
date we have for all causes hardly received $150, if that, and we 
are in sore straits. Lord, thou didst send us $1000 each De- 
cember for years past and now, Lord, our burdens and re- 
sponsibilities are heavier and thou sendest us nothing! Lord, 
Lord, send us help, speedily ! We need thy aid in a great measure. 

December tiventy -seventh — God has permitted us to have a 
delightful and a blessed Christmas. The children had a beauti- 
ful Christmas tree and good behavior. On Christmas night I 
received $125 in the letters and in addition $400 ( !) for a special 
work. I do not yet know what we shall use it for but I want it 
to go either to the endowment fund or to some special building 
work. I had praved for $300 last week and again for $600 this 
week. I have received both. Our receipts for this month have 
already over-run $1000 besides at least S200 in provisions. Oh, 
God, out of my whole soul I thank thee. The night-mare of 
debt has cleared away and now we are ready for new things. 



CHAPTER FIFTEEN 

1884— Age 42 

Janiianj ninth — I hope to make a special effort soon to en- 
list sympathy for our new college movement. I do believe that 
"grit" will build the college yet. I have put my hand to it and 
I will not draw back. 

Janiiani fourteenth — My fear for the future is that Presby- 
terians will move away from Clinton, Bapti.^ts are moving in. 
In three years we have gained three families, Baptists ten, and 
Methodists four. If this goes on a few months longer, this will 
be a Baptist town. In three years four Presbyterians, one Bap- 
tist, and no Methodist families have moved away. Dear Lord, 
in mercy, care for thy little flock here and spare us from the 
curse that we likely deserve. 

Januarij fifteenth — Five years ago today! Oh, Mary how 
often have I thought of you these five years! 

January tiventy-first — The Y. M. P. M. of the Baptist 
Church now becomes a union prayer-meeting and will be held 
at the Orphans' chapel. All these things are help to our cause. 
I rejoice to see the bitterness dying out. I trust that God will 
yet bless us with a revival. 

January thirty -first — We completed and invested yesterday 
our 6th thousand for the endowment of 1:he Orphanage. I have 
also succeeded in getting the other churches to put their prayer- 
meetings on Thursday night for our mutual protection. Once 
successfully carried into execution, it will be an incentive to all 
the churches to preserve that night from intrusion and to pre- 
vent prayer-meetings from dying out by using our mutual work 
as a leverage. It is altogether a new plan for small villages but 
I think time will prove its advantages. A big fire last night and 
I am dreadfully tired in consequence. 

February tirentu-eiqht — We need greatly a teacher at the 
Orphanage in Miss Pattie's place. She leaves us soon and we 
have no teacher in view. We have elected two and both have 
declined. 

February twenty-ninth — Tonight — the jug-breaking. I was 
sick, too sick to enjoy it but the children seemed to be having 

243 



244 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

a good time anyway. I rejoice at the financial success. $76 
gained for the church. 

March fourteenth — I have now undertaken to raise $1200 
for a good brick building, 'to include kitchen, laundry and water 
tank, the water to be raised to it by wind mill power. It will 
be attached to the ''Home of Peace". 

March tiuenty-third — I have had a day of rain and pain. 
Only 109 at Sunday School, scarce over a hundred at morning 
service. Lord, how many things distress me. I feel today as 
if I should resign, if only I had my way. Everywhere I meet 
with disappointment. 

April — At our meeting last Monday night we agreed to 
build the college. I now start out to do a twenty year's work 
for the institution. I found the other day a plan that suits me 
exactly. It is that of the Science Hall, Vanderbilt University. 
By diminishing the size but keeping the same proportions, we 
will be able to erect a very suitable house for our w^ork. I long 
for its erection before my boys are to be educated at college so 
that we may have two good professors at work within two years 
at furtherest. I think that the college can pay it if it gets fifty 
college pupils. But we must endow it to the amount of $10,000 
and then it is literally safe. God grant me speed in it. 

April twenty-fourth — We are very busy, practicing for the 
anniversary. Florence has the music in charge and she is doing 
nobly. I am much pleased with her efforts. 

April tiventy-ninth — I have been passing through the deep 
waters of sorrow, these past few days. Lord, help me. Thou 
knowest at which door there is escape. Open it for me, my 
savior. 

May fourth — We have never been as low in funds at this 
season of the year before. This also burdens me. Oh, that I 
could place all my sorrow on my Savior and feel that in him I can 
truly live and that he only is my all. Lord, help me. 

June eleventh — I feel that the great work for me for the 
next ten years is in Clinton College. 

J/dy — At last we are through with our Commencement, the 
second, Clinton College, is becoming an acknowledged institu- 
tion — God grant it success. The chief graduate was Sam Fulton, 
one of our orphan boys. He goes to the seminary this fall. My 
prayers go with him. 



AGE FORTY— 1884 245 

Lord, this is my twentieth year in Clinton, jicive me one soul 
for each year. 

Julij sixth — Oh, put it into my power to speak with many 
of the unconverted during the next few weeks and grant that 
they may all be brought in. There is a constant drift of mem- 
bers away from us. I have five members at Laurens C. H. three 
"at Spartanburg, etc. Lord save these scattered sheep. 

Jubj fourtevfJi — The Baptists have opened fire upon us and 
are trying to draw us into a controversy in the Lauren'^ cille 
Herald. I am not sure that I will pay any attention to their 
bark. I am too busy with God's work to spend time in disputes 
about questions to no profit. 

JhUj ciffhteenfh — Mrs. Boyd has left us. She has been a 
faithful worker. Mrs. Liddell, our new teacher has arrived. 
Mrs. Simonton, the matron, will come soon. We will be fully 
officered again in a few days. 

AnguM — Out of the 20 souls, I asked the Lord for, the re- 
sult of the summer meeting, 17 have been welcomed. Surely 
there will be three more as the offspring of this same meeting. 
I have been laboring at Rockbridge five years. Now, Lord, give 
me five souls there, one for each year. 

August — We begin to build the Beehive next Monday week. 

August tenth — Laus Deo. Last night, I received twelve 
hundred dollars from Mrs. McCormick to build a new house! 
I will use it to put up a "McCormick Memorial Cottage" for 
larger orphan boys and will build it between the Orphanage and 
the College. It will be a connecting link between them. For 
three years I have three buildings projected. This, my 20th 
year will be my most fruitful. I rejoice and thank God for it. 
Oh, that a harvest of souls might crown my work. I have 
already received eighteen since April 1st and my church num- 
bers 200 members. I praise God. But Oh. Lord, I am not 
yet satisfied. 

August twelfth — I was delighted yesterday with the recep- 
tion of the whole family of Mr. Jno. Davis. His wife was a mem- 
ber of the Baptist church but comes to us. We have received 
seven at Rockbridge, 24 in the church in less than a month. 

Afigust thii-tieth — I received today $300 more from Mrs. 
McCormick, making $1500 which she sends for the "McCormick 
House for Orphan boys". 



246 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



September ninth — I have been privileged of God to attend 
a delightful meeting at Cross Hill. I preached twice daily. We 
received 15 to the church. My heart was very much touched 
during the meeting. I felt a deep interest in the people. 

September fifteenth — Yesterday I received one member 
(from the Baptist church) I also had Sammie Fulton, one of my 
orphan boys and the first to graduate from our college to preach 
for me. There are a third of our preachers who would not 
preach as acceptably as Sammie did last night. I thank God. 

September twenty-third — Today we finished work on the 
walls of the "Bee-hive." I will need to raise $500 more for the 
building which it will take some months to do. 

October — I am greiving over the fact that this "evolution" 
question is to disturb the harmony of the church in the Synod. 
May the Lord keep down hard feelings and every disturbance. 

October tenth — I am tired and worn out today, have already 
formed a habit of idleness that may hurt me. I need some books 
to read. I have a large number of books very suitable for 
general reading. My books are mainly theological. I would like 
some good scientific books ... I was out last night at a very 
pleasant and interesting service at the Methodist church. Bro- 
ther Boyd mentioned that he had received 21 to the Clinton 
M. E. Church this year. There have been 11 additions to the 
Baptist and 33 to ours — a total of 65 in the town. My church 
was equal to both the others combined. I ought to be encouraged. 

I need to preach, visit, pray and study more effectually. 

November third — The property for the Orphanage is: 

1 — Farm and grounds not less than $3,250 
2 — The Home of Peace and furniture 6,000 
3— The Faith Cottage and furniture 2,000 
4 — The Orphan's Seminary, furniture 6,000 
5— The new laundry 1,000 

6— The old laundry etc. 300 

7— The endowment 6,000 

8 — Cash for McCormick house 1.500 



Grand total 



$25,550 



Here is proof of the favor which God has bestowed upon 
this work. I rejoice in him above measure. 

November ttvelfth — No receipts for the Orphanage this 



AGE FORTY— 1884 247 

week. Lord do not forget these dear children. Lend a kind 
ear to their cries. 

I have been building a pit for flowers, something good and 
substantial. It is to be large enough to do us for many a year 
to come. Have had a well dug for the college. 

November sixteenth — We are having smoky days, a lurid 
sun and dust by the dozens and also in quantities. 

Norember thirtieth — Yesterday I discharged the carpenter 
on the Bee-hive. The house still lacks the plastering of the sec- 
ond story and a little finishing work. The entire cost of the 
building will be about $900, and the finishing $200 more. There 
will be a piazza to build that will cost me about $75. Then the 
laundry will be moved for a work shop to some convenient point 
in the yard. 

Decembei'— The machinery for the windmill, etc. is arriving. 
I want to get it put up and start everything in operation as 
soon as possible. 

I have had a delightful visit from A. Page Brown, Esq. of 
New York. He comes here, sent by Mrs. Cyrus McCormick to 
see for himself. He brought the plans for the McCormick house. 
They will give us a great deal of work and cost not less than 
$3000. I will make out my calculations and then write Mrs. 
McCormick about them. 

December twenty-fifth — Christmas! How the little folks 
have enjoyed it. The people of God have lifted up their hands 
to bless the little ones. Three years and a half ago I bagan to 
write in this book. In that time, many have been the changes. 
I have grown older but thank God in most of my work I have 
succeeded. I have built my own house, the Orphans' Seminary; 
Rockbridge Chapel, the Bee-hive and done something toward 
the College and the McCormick house. My church has grown 
in number and the building has been remodeled. The whole 
work, the Lord gave me to do has prospered and almost without 
hindrance and I am very glad. Oh, God, I do thank thee. 

So I have begun to make an effort to prove: 

THAT A LITTLE VILLAGE CHURCH MAY BECOME A 

TOWER OF STRENGTH. 



These to pray for: 

Nannie Vance* J. W. Copeland 

Mase Copeland* Rhett Copeland* 



* 



248 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

R. H. McCrary* Emmett Little 

J. H. Phinney* W. D. Owens* 

Addison Young William Young* 

Putsey Bailey* Willie Bailey* 

L. H. Davidson* Maggie Adair* 

Walton Little* Gus Davidson* 

Bluf Henry* Florence Watts* 

Mattie Davidson* Sallie West* 

George P. Copeland* ^ J. P. Blackwell 

J. H. Davis* D. D. Little* 

Effie Watts* Carrie Boozer* 

Fannie Briggs* El. Briggs* 
Lee FerQ:uson* , Guy Copeland* 

Henry Young* Mary Hunter* 

Johnnie Hunter* Thomas B. Craig* 

*Ans2vered Nannie Young* 

1885— Age 43 

I have kept a journal since 1857, sometimes with greater, 
sometimes with less zeal. I keep it for my own comfort. I am 
very fond of looking back into the past that I may see the way 
the Lord has led me. It gives me also the feeling that my past 
is not a dead, forgotten thing. I still live in the years gone by 
and from these years draw lessons that help me in the present. 

January sixteenth — I look out of my study today and see 
what God has enabled me to do for these orphans. One by one 
these buildings have grown up from nothing until they have 
reached a proportion to command the attention of the church at 
large. I rejoice that as I look into my own heart I can truly say 
that I have not sought these things to make a name for myself. 
I know that men praise me but I feel ashamed when I hear it. 
My interest is in the work itself and my gratification is to see 
the work progress and to know that the Lord has privileged 
me to do it. This is my reward. 

I have ambitions. I do so long for a few months travel and 
to be so ahead that I can concientiously take the time. If this 
is right and best for me, I am absolutely sure that it will be 
given to me of the good hand of God and if it is not best for 
me and for the work, I do not want it. 

January tiventy-seventh — This day Rev. Z. L. Holmes died. 
He was a good, true friend of mine, the founder of this church. 

February — On Monday last I took Florence and Miss Mamie 



AGE FORTY— 1884 249 

Simonton to Charleston. We had a three day stay at James 
Island. Father is doing well, preaching regulary at 77. 

March — This is the first March I ever saw in which the 
earth showed no signs of coming summer, not a swelling bud, 
not a blossom. 

March tiventii-third — The church will be finished this week 
or early next week. The Bee Hive is now completed entirely. 
It cost exactly $1,000 to build the house and piazza and $450 
to furnish it. I still need $150 to finish paying for it. Dear 
Lord, help me. I am getting in lumber for the McCormick 
House and College. As soon as the weather gets warmer we 
will start in for a long pull on these two houses. I am about to 
order lumber for the new printing office and I have arranged 
my plans — my new typewriter has arrived. It is a pretty thing, 
it will relieve me wonderfully in sermon-writing and copy for 
the papers. I have already become pretty efficient with it. 

April seventeenth — Oh, how busy I have been today. Fifty 
letters written. My correspondence box emptied for the first 
time in months ! The door of the temple at Janus is shut. Peace. 

April nineteenth — I am to be as busy as I can be for the 
next three weeks with the preparations for the 21st anniversary. 
I am to prepare speeches for eight or nine boys and will then 
prepare the boys to speak them. 

May — Only $11 in the treasury of the Orphanage. May the 
dear Lord supply our great need. 

May tenth — After a week or two of hard work our anniver- 
sary, the 25th, was celebrated. The part that we could control 
was about all I could ask. The boys spoke well. The singing 
was excellent. The attendance was 12 to 1500. The weather 
was cool. The behavior was very noisy and as usual few could 
hear. I fear we will have to give up these anniversaries. They 
have succeeded too successfully. Lord show me how to use them 
for the honor of thy holy name. It can be done and I pray God 
that it may be done. A great gathering of people ought cer- 
tainly to be utilized. 

May eighteenth— \ have just had a delightful visit from my 
brother and sister (Henry and Mamie Sperry) and from father. 
I have enjoyed their visit greatly. Father preached for me 
yesterday morning. I had a very fine Sunday School and ex- 
cellent audience. 



250 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

On June the 4th I hunted up the boat landing and jumped 
aboard the *'Mt. Vernon", over 200 of our delegates were on 
board, the first glimpse of Washington — the tall needle Hke mon- 
ument — 555 feet high and the great white dome of the capitol. 
So we sped down the river, past Fort Washington, till we land- 
ed at Mt. Vernon. Beautiful and beautifully kept, everything in 
perfect order, but Washington seemed to be with me, even though 
I had reverently passed his grave and knew that he was dead. 
What memories of the past! This tree was from the grave of 
Napoleon. This tree Washington planted with his own hands. 
On this bed he passed away. This $1,000 spinet was his gift 
to his niece. In this room he entertained the great men of his 
time, here LaFayette slept on that famous visit when he brought 
with him the key of the Bastile and here it is. We hasten back 
to Washington, I, via Alexandria and at night our conference 
opens with speeches from Judge McArthur, Gov. Anderson of 
Ky. and Gov. Hoyt of Pa. June the fifth, the day I can hardly 
describe, so varied the scenes. First I stood at the basis of the 
mighty shaft and tried to believe it was as high as they said, 
then I sought to do my duty as a member of the conference. 
But I must confess I have far more interest in the sights of this 
wonderfully beautiful city. On every side of the Willard House, 
along Pennsylavnia Avenue, along F. St. N. W. where I have 
been out and toward the monument I found beautiful lawns, 
magnificent buildings, splendid trees and foilage, all just like 
fairyland. I felt as did the Queen of Sheba ''there was no more 
heart left in me". At one thirty today occurred the star pro- 
ceeding of our Convention. We formed in procession and march- 
ed to the White House where a reception was tendered us by 
President Cleveland. In through the beautiful grounds to the 
front portico of the Mansion, thence through green rooms and 
blue rooms and other colored rooms to the "East Room" where 
we all stood in a semi-circle, the door was thrown back and in 
stepped Cleveland. He was just like his photos, large, healthy 
looking, well-fed, good humored — decent. There was a warm 
pressure of the hand as my name was announced, he looked 
me in the eye and all was over ... I have found that it was 
good to keep the Sabbath in the Lord's way. In all my travels, 
Sunday has never failed to be my best and most satisfactory day. 

Back to the hall in the evening, where I found bitter at- 
tacks on the orphan institutions the order of the day. I never 
was more surprised. Perhaps the Orphan asylums are as they 
describe — indeed my own experience among their "pets" shows 
that they are very defective. I have had a feeling whenever 



AGE FORTY— 1884 251 

I visited them, that none of them equalled our Orphanage in the 
real good that was being done — I was gratified to be able to 
pitch in medias res and tell them of the southern institution that 
abominated their pet theory of ''placing children" of "finding 
them in*' and "finding them out". My soul is stirred within me, 
when I think of it and I am mad with myself that I did not say 
a great deal more about the matter. 

Work is being done on the college again, just after com- 
mencement. My heart is greatly in this college plan. I hope 
for its success, above all things. There is no Presbyterian Col- 
lege in South Carolina and no reason who ours should become 
the Presbyterian College of the State. The grounds of the Or- 
phanage now all look very bright, green and beautiful. No 
picture is so lovely as these bright green mornings, after the 
rains. It is a grand hope that Jesus gives us of a resurrection. 
That granted, and life is indeed a treasure. Lord, give us thy 
glory therein. 

Jnhj — During the past week I sent off my little boys to 
Charleston on a month's furlough, well pleased that I can give 
them the trip. We are getting on swimmingly with the College 
and McCormick house, the only unpleasant premonition is the 
emptiness of the treasury! Lord, replenish it for us. 

J}iUi twenty-fifth — The college walls have risen five feet 
within a week. It has attracted a good deal of attention and 
the prospect is that it will be a great success. Oh, Lord, give us 
the money, to push this grand enterprise, through, that it may 
be the means of educating thousands. I look forward to the 
development of the institution into something commensurate 
with the name it bears. "Clinton Presbyterian College of South 
Carolina." 

The children are all back with me and dearer to me than 
ever. God bless my children. I give them every one to thee. 
Do with them as seemeth good in thv sight. Oh how eagerly 
I long for some of my boys to enter the ministry. 

August twentif-sixth — Last night our ladies gave a pleasant 
social at the church. A greater part of the young people were 
out, the Methodists and Baptists of course, were not there. We 
never see them now any more than if there were none in town. 
The Methodist pastor has just been chosen to lead the movement 
for a Baptist School in the place of Williams. The two denomina- 
tions are a unit against us. Well, thank God, The Master is not 



252 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



against us and I look to him to enable us to make the Presby- 
terian church and its institutions all that it should be. 

September eleventh — We have met with a sad calamity. 
This evening just as we had put the last touch of plaster on the 
college walls, the two pillars in front gave way and the whole 
of the center front wall fell with a crash. In an instant our 
rejoicing turned into mourning. I have one great cause for 
thanks. Dangerous as was the fall, no one was hurt. I could 
hardly sleep last night, so troubled was I about the disaster! 
It is a sad calamity but I rejoice to say that it is not a mon- 
ied loss to the Association for our people came nobly to the 
rescue and $250 was subscribed to replace the battered walls 
and the half of that will be enough, so financially we came out of 
the distress better than ever. Still it is a great loss of time to 
us as it will be three wrecks before the damage can be repaired. 
Dear Lord, I do thank thee that there was no loss of life but 
that not one of all our workmen received even a scratch from it. 
Grant, Master, that the house may be carried through with 
equal safety to the end. 

September tiventieth — During the past week we succeeded 
in getting two of the stone pillars from the old court house at 
Laurensville to uphold the base of our college. The pillars are 
filled with ancient memories of the past history of this country, 
and around them cluster the legal lore, wise laws of learned 
lawyers, and between them has passed many a poor culprit who 
left hope behind. This week the work of restoration will begin. 
Oh, Lord, prosper the work. 

September ticenty-seventh — Miss Laura and Miss Lottie 
Prince have arrived to take charge of the College Art and Music 
work. 

October — I rejoice in the reception of a thousand dollars for 
the completion of the McCormick House. The Lord put it into 
her heart to give it in answer to prayer. Blessed be his name. 
This assures the completion of this house and will make it a very 
pretty thing, too. I rejoice and thank God. 

October thirteenth — Last night we took what I trust will 
prove to be a great step forward in the management of our col- 
lege. We elected four professors with President Smith of Reid- 
ville at the head. My department will be a weekly lecture to 
the college on Bible themes. The Lord is wonderfully opening 
before us the great program I have been working for these years. 
The Presbyterian College of Clinton, S. C. is to be fixed as a 



AGE FORTY— 1884 253 

fact. There is a vast stretch before us and we are a feeble folk 
but it can and it will be accomplished. Lord, help me in it. 

I arranged a plan by which the Orphanage will henceforth 
have two scholarships in the college. It ought to be four so 
that each year we could enter one deserving boy in that institu- 
tion, Lord, grant success ... I have now laid pretty much the 
foundation of all the work I expect to do in life. But every de- 
partment of it is to be pressed on to a high fulfillment of plans. 
I have to make a college out of our college, a noble charity out 
of the orphanage — a splendid church out of my church, a better 
paper out of Our Monthly and to be a leader in Presbyterian 
labors. 

October twenfif-third — I am getting much interested in the 
languages again. It is an evidense of the over-shadowing pres- 
ence of our new college. I read a little every day in Latin, Greek, 
Hebrew, and German. Today I refreshed my memory in Chal- 
dee, Syriac and Spanish and Dutch. I am studying Anglo-Saxon 
.... Hope to get down to see Father in the course of four or 
five weeks. I have to go over to Greenwood to marry a couple on 
Monday. I wonder how Woodrow will come out at Synod ! 

October thirtieth — A very pleasant little jaunt to Greenwood 
where I tied Edgar Owens to Miss Mary Bailey for life. I was 
the guest of Cad Waller whose little daughter Daisy and I be- 
came chums. There is the prospect of a Railroad to Clinton and 
Mr. Bailey is half way persuaded to give us a bank. If which 
should be so, hurrah for Clinton! I had a long and pleasant chat 
with "Bill Arp" on the way home, a good old elder in the Rome, 
Ga., church. 

October thirty- first— This day, the walls of the McCormick 
Home were finished and thus another step taken in our journey. 
Thank God. 

November — I have hope that Mr. Bailey will erect a bank 
in Clinton. If he does, it will be because of my urginj?. With 
a college and a bank and a prospective railroad the prospects 
for the future of our village brighten and Clinton is getting to 
be alright. 

Xovembtr twcntij-fifth — The ladies gave a festival on Tues- 
day for the college, reaping $104.00. One cake sold for $60.00. 
So ends the year. 



254 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

1886— Age 43-44 

January fifteenth — Lectures! First it was Dr. Millard and 
then the blizzard with the thermometer at zero, coldest weather 
since 1835, they say — We have been literally locked up with ice 
for a week, just a week today. Not a lick of work done on the 
houses. Winter in real dead earnest. And not only no sign of 
abatement but every prospect of getting worse. The ground is 
snow covered and the clouds look like snow and the wind blows. 

January eighteenth — My labors for the orphanage cover so 
much of my time that I am beginning to believe that the time is 
approaching when another will have to take charge of the 
church. 

February seventeeyith — On the 15th of February I had the 
fir^ rock hauled for the new Printing Office. I hope to build 
it during July and August. All the material will be collected 
before hand. I intend that Our Monthly shall pay the bill with- 
out the issuing of a single circular. It will be 'the property of 
the Orphanage. 

March — It is most definitely arranered that the new college 
building will be opened on the 15th of March, which will be my 
44th birthday. Its formal dedication will take place, I trust, 
about October 1st, which will be the 11th anniversary of the 
opening of the orphanage. I am thankful that I have been en- 
abled to bring the college so near to completion. It will be a 
well organized body with six lectures in all and I trust large pos- 
sibilities. The house is quite a good one and not at all out of 
keeping with our purposes. We are satisfied with it. I now 
pray God to enable me to organize it rightly and make it all 
that it ought to be. Mv own children are all getting their edu- 
cation there. Thus it means that every one of them will be a 
college graduate. As I look back over my old resolves and plans 
for the glory of God and see how he has wrough'c through me, 
I can thank him from the depth of my soul. I have great rea- 
son to reioice and be glad in him for He has not forsaken me. 

I am truly grateful to God for enabling me to realize what 
for years past — fifteen or twenty of them, has been a dream of 
my life, that Clinton is to have a college — a real active, living, 
wide-awake college! A Presbyterian college. I do thank God 
and now resolve in his strength and grace to make of myself 
and of my work for him, a nobler story than heretofore. 



AGE FORTY— 1884 265 

March fifteenth — This day by the goodness of God, I was 
enabled to set in order the Presbyterian College of Clinton, S. C. 
At nine-thirty A.M., in the presence of more than eighty or more 
students and six teachers, 1 offered the first prayer ever of- 
fered in the house and solemnly gave it to the Lord. At three 
P.M., we met in the college chapel, the pupils of the Orphanage 
being present and I addressed the assembly as to the **manner 
of the Kingdom." We also had addresses from Mr. Smith and 
Barnes. After this I succeeded in persuading the Association 
to resolve to raise one thousand dollars to complete the house 
and trust it will be done. 

March eighteenth — Oh how^ glad I am that I am thus enabled 
to have my boys educated in a college in Clinton. My plans were 
far behind my realization. Oh, how^ earnestly I am praying 
that He would put it into Mrs. McCormick's heart to give us 
$750.00 more for the McCormick Home and into the hearts of 
the Clinton people to give us $1,000 for the completion of the 
college. It is hard to realize how great a change the two build- 
ings will make. 

March twenty -seventh — My prayer of the 18th inst. has been 
answered. The Lord has put it into the heart of Mrs. McCor- 
mick to give us $800.00 for the McCormick Home and now we 
are hastening on to its completion. I rejoice. This gift is a 
very rift in the clouds. What a burden it has taken from me. 
It insures two other things, viz. the fourth scholarship in the 
college and the erection of my Printing Office. And so the Lord 
is opening hearts and helping me. Lord send light. Oh, for a 
revival. I have felt recently, as with a flood of light, the beauty 
and sweetness of Christ's character and the reality of his work 
on earth. Never was there a life like his. Oh to see him and to 
meet him. To do this, I could die! Aye, I would cheerfully lay it 
all down to go i nd be with Jesus. And yet as cheerfully do I 
live with the joy in my heart that I am doing his work and 
that He is with me, helping me in it. I feel that all is working 
together for good for him and me. Now, Lord, get my people 
to give $1,000. 

April eleventh — I have just eot back from Presbytery. The 
meetincT was held at Laurensville. I must say that the people 
entertained us grandly. I was the cruest of Col. Ball and the 
kindness shown me won me completely ... 1 new church — 
1 new licentiate. That licentiate was my bov Sam Fulton. His 
examination was thorouehly satisfactory. He is to preach for 
me today, will spend the summer with us. 



256 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

May — A few days ago a poor old broken down Presbyterian 
came to see me, stayed all night, and on leaving I gave him the 
last five dollar bill I had, to pay his way to Charleston. I saiu 
to the Lord as I gave it, "Lord, I give this to the poor man for 
thy sake. Repay me if thou seest I need it." It was money I 
had begun to lay by to take a trip away from home with. The 
Lord has done it. I have received a gift of $300.00 from Mrs. 
McCormick asking me to take a trip to London with it. I am 
going! Blessed be God for his goodness and for thus putting 
it into my power to visit the various institutions in England 
and the North that I wish to see . . . Lord, help me to arrange 
all my plans for the very best and give me great success in my 
undertaking. It does seem as if everything was to happen this 
year and the Lord has arranged even my disappointments to 
work out for me great success. The college finished and occu- 
pied. The McCormick House complete. My Printing office to 
follow suit. A trip to Europe and all in one year. 

Oh, Lord, in some way, that I cannot yet see, open up the 
way for the building of the Printing Office. I think He will do 
this! Yes, He will do it. Even as I write. He suggests a fea- 
sible plan. Sam Fulton came up last night and will preach near 
Clinton this summer. He will give my people a sermon every 
night till my return . . . My own son. States, thinks that he 
will study for the ministry. Oh, that God would keep him in 
that mind and enable him to love the Lord more and more and 
to serve him with Godly fear. 

July — All my meetings have been successful. I have also 
received a purse of $75.00 from members of my church to aid 
me in the trip. We have been busy with college commencement, 
have arranged to complete the building. 

To Europe — On Monday morning bright and early we pull- 
ed out of Clinton, behind Bally. Yesterday w^as a day of great 
lamentation, many handshakings and this morning we left the 
big Orphanage house-hold, all overflowing with tears ... At 
Laurens, Fair and Todd came down to see us off . . . And then 
the new road to Spartanburg . . . We found the through train 
for Washington behind time, had enough daylight to carry us 
into Charlotte. At Charlottesville we had a distant view of the 
dome of the University . . . Later we were at the Capitol. I 
showed Florence the most of the building. We sat for a half 
hour with both the Senate and the House, business was not brisk 
and the Senators were sleepy. There was no dignity about the 
crowd ... I have seen the whole passenger list prostrated with 



AGE FORTY— 1884 257 

sickness. I can brag, as I did not miss a single meal . . . There 
have been adventures — the stormy night which was almost a 
night of terror, the three days without a sail in sight — the fog 
and the fog-horn, the answer through the dense night, the Le- 
viathan spouting in the north, the thrill of excitement when the 
engine suddenly paused this afternoon. Tonight the sails are 
out, the engine at work, the sick recovered. Oh, let us give 
thanks to God ... I have the pleasantest room-mate in Mr. Frank 
Barnett. We will travel together. 

The nineteenth — I had yesterday one of the most singular 
experiences of my life and that was preaching on ship-board . . . 
Another experience was the trip I took down below. The tre- 
mendous machinery, the eight coal furnaces in full blast, the 
solitary workmen impressed me greatly. 

I crept all along the great shaft that turns the propeller, 
close to the end as far as I could go. On that foot thick steel rod 
depends our safety, under God. 

I have preached the only sermon that has been preached in 
the saloon during this passage. 

Our first introduction was now made to the little English 
compartment cars. They are cozy and nice. I like them. 

We bought tickets to Edinboro and return for 4 s. and were 
off — third class but as good as Laurens Railway first class. 

The whole country is a product of art — no woods in our 
sense of the word — even the underbrush seemed "left so on pur- 
pose". But there is a great deal of beauty in the scene. I was 
reminded of a lion with his face washed and his hair all nicely 
combed out, and his mane parted in the middle, but a lion still. 

Our walk down High St. and Canon gate, past John Knox 
house was one to be remembered. Oh, the aching of heart that 
the street full of ragged children gave me. Their storming 
after the police who were arresting drunken women. 

Edinboro is beautiful but there is misery in it. Every man 
we meet is a Presbyterian. But there is dirt and poverty here. 

Well built stone hedges — well trimmed hawthorn hedges, 
even along streams or through little patches of woods. Nature 
has been thoroughly trained. 

Chester Cathedral — old, weatherbeaten, venerable, honored 
structure! My first Cathedral and I shall never forget its long 



258 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

cloistered halls, its grand doorway, the memorial of ancient 
days, the battered and worn casements, the chained Bible — the 
massive power and yet wondrous elegance of the stone-work that 
seemed to spring heaven-ward, not the pestiferous book-agent 
at the door. 

Three hours were spent in Stratford-on-Avon. We visited 
the house where Shakespeare was born, and wrote our names in 
the register; the rough floor of' stone below and board plank 
above is broken; the old fireplace is the size of a small room. 
I sat in the old stone chimney seat where Shakespeare, the boy 
sat. Caught no inspiration. 

One despairs after having seen Oxford. 

Spurgeon, this morning, attacked Evolution but Parker 
seemed to think it a part of an understood plan. I am delighted 
with his sermon although it was very difficult to follow him. 
Thus has this day been a complete success. 

In all my tramp I have not seen a watermelon or a peach 
or a banana or a sweet potato or an ice cream saloon pr a mule 
or a donkey. And while I recognize all I see, there are multi- 
tudes of things I don't see. I have not seen rice or hominy since 
I left home. If this absence of the things I love is to go on for 
a month or so, I'll get homesick. 

I like the little English maidens. They are quite pretty. 
The people as a general thing look just like our own home people, 
speak a little quaintly, but more like South Carolinians that do 
the Yankees. 

The Stockwell Orphanage out on Clebham Road. I was kind- 
ly welcomed and showed over the institution. It is far larger 
than I thought and I am delighted with it. The buildings are 
grand in their way, everything is perfect order and very neat. 
The children looked healthy and were to start on their month's 
vacation (I am always getting in just in the nick of time). Spur- 
geon has fine playgrounds for his children. They attend the 
Tabernacle preaching — are a good lot of children — don't fight 
( ?) I like his cottage arrangement. He keeps the children till 
14, and then the girls stay two years longer to help in domestic 
work. I don't like that or his dormitory plan but the work is 
splendidly done from his point of view, i. e. the English. 

My heart aches for these little street children. 

We get our meals at a cost of twelve to thirty cents, beds 



AGE FORTY— 1884 269 

at fifty cents (we are rather choice in matters of bedding and 
are well pleased with the location.) 

Yesterday morning, I visited the British Museum. It is 
simply immense in its treasures. 

The EgA'ptian relics are certain evidence that the ancient 
Egyptians were a negroid race. They have thick lips and ne- 
groid configuration. I never had a thing demonstrated to me 
so clearly before. 

We next, after a light lunch, went to the Zoological Gardens 
and here I did want the children of the Orphanage very badly. 

In Holland I find plenty of beans, the regular old snap. 
I saw none in England. 

I have seen numbers of Rubens' and Van Dyke's pictures 
here (they were citizens of Antwerp) and I don't admire them. 
Well! yes! Even so. 

The home people would not believe in the size of the fields 
— wheat, oats, potatoes, turnips, beans — all about the same size 
and all about a quarter of an acre, easy forty feet wide and 250 
long. Some a little bigger and others about one fourth as big. 
Actually there were hundreds of wheat fields about the size of 
our orphanage strawberry field but oh how they did yield. The 
country is finely tilled and beautifully. The ground did not 
seem very rich but they make every foot of it bring something. 

Aiif/uM eight een-eiqhiy-^ix — Yesterday in the musee at An- 
twerp I saw a beautiful sentiment in a picture of the attempt to 
throw Christ over the precipice at Nazareth. His body hung over 
nothing but underneath the foot that should have fallen were 
three cherubs. Underneath God's children are God's arms! 

We dropped into Cologne about two o'clock and were right 
on the great Cathedral in a few minutes and into this wonderful, 
wonderful building — begun about 1245, the spire finished about 
1880 but a orreat number of workmen still at work and a great 
deal more to be done yet. I was struck dumb with delight at 
its 50 or 60 splendid pillars springing out of the floor and seem- 
ing to uphold the sky, the roof was so far away; there was a 
service going on, the rich organ peeling out its sweet notes around 
the aisles. There are countless carved images — figures — gargoy- 
les within and without. The exterior is a great forest of ornamen- 
tation. The doors are as rich in splendor as an army with ban- 
ners. Up and up and up, higher and higher as the eye climbs 



260 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

toward heaven on the spire there is no failure in the wealth 
and splendor of design. These 600 years of building have told. 

At any rate, there isn't a particle of covering on our beds 
but a German mattress, as I live! I've heard of this thing but 
lo, I see it. I approach the hour of bedtime with fear. These 
Germans have arranged to smother us. 

Picture the scene. It is typical, the river near half a mile 
wide on each side, rough precipitous hills rising upward three 
hundred feet, cultivated in a most extraordinary manner to the 
very summit, little patches guarded by gradings from slipping 
into the river, the rows of vegetation (vines) running right up 
hill and all too steep for a horse by any manner of means to stand 
on it. (I don't see how a man can) Along the base on each side 
run the railways, piercing the hills through tunnels in scores of 
places, the archway entrances being handsome Norman Gothic 
structures and the river itself for scores and scores of miles be- 
ing faced with stone curbs. Now in some little cove of land be- 
tween the river and the hill crowd together on a strip of land a 
half mile long by 100 yards wide at its widest, a hundred stone 
or brick buildings or stores, with great high roofs and one, two, 
three sets of little domes, one above the other. In the center or at 
an end, put a beautiful old church its great roof swelling far 
above the rest of the tall spire of stone or slate rising one, two 
hundred feet. Near by, say on the very crest of a great hill, 
just to the tov^n's left, the ruins of some great old castle with 
its round tower and crumbling walls — and you have what I saw 
fifty times today. The little villages seem to run in pairs one 
on the right, the other on the left of the Rhine and the twin rail- 
roads are always there. 

Well, we had a grand table d'hote dinner in the cabin which 
was one window with but slight divisions on all its sides and so 
as we ate the beautiful banks of the Rhine slid by — village, castle 
and mountain. Of course I noticed the points of peculiar in- 
terest to me; the sieben Gebrige, Ehrenbreitstein (what a splen- 
did old fortress it is) Coblentz with its bridge of boats — Lorelei 
rock — Bingen and its Mouse tower, the two enemies — brothers 
and so on and so on. — I too am henceforth enthusiastic over the 
beautiful, populous, antique, wonderful Rhine. 

Heidleberg. Here we were to stay all night. But the whole 
town was ablaze with banners and decorations. Every street 
was gay with the bunting. King Wilhelm Frederick, Crown 
Prince was in town. Moreover it was the 500th anniversary 



AGE FORTY— 1884 261 

of Heidleberg University and rooms had gone up to ten dollars 
a night and so we had to do what we were going to do and get 
away. 

We thought the ascent of the Alps unutterably grand as 
we came in from Italy but language fails me to describe the 
miles on miles that followed. Every combination to thrill the 
heart of an enthusiast over nature was there. The snow cover- 
ed mountains, tremendous cliffs — waterfalls till it was weariness 
to count them. Beautiful lakes — (Zug and Lucerne) quaint high 
perched villages — sharp eeries for the eagle — cliffs and crags and 
boulders, plains strewn with mighty masses of brecchia, foaming 
torrents, the quaintly dressed people, the oft recurring tunnels — 
so that we would rush out of a mountain to hang for a few min- 
utes in dizzy space and right into the darkness of night again. 
I never can forget this day's experience! I have walked where 
God has wrought his miracles of power and I have seen the stu- 
pendous works of man, made in the image of God. 

Now it is hard to believe it but it is true that these villages 
were not more than a quarter to a half mile apart and every one 
with its church built in 1380 more or less. Some places like 
Vevey, Montreux, have magnificent modern hotels and other 
good buildings but the balance looked as if they hadn't changed 
a particle since Calvin's time. 

The road wound in coils and spirals upward and downward 
with great peaks a mile high on every hand. Some of the rough- 
est, grandest, most thoroughly tilled country I ever dreamed of. 
Conical mountains, mountains that looked like big inkstands, 
big turnips, the half of a beet a mile high and jagged mountains 
and all other sorts. As for the road — well, I finally got perfect- 
ly used to being scared and found myself nonchalantly standing 
at the edge of a precipice one half a mile deep with a mile or so 
of jutting crag above and all sorts of dismal piles of cavernous 
rocks about me and the mountain streams tearing along as if 
they were five hours behind time and had to make it all up in 
the next ten minutes. At one place there was not enough moun- 
tain face to dig away to make the road so they had to cut a tun- 
nel. At another place the road gave out entirely and they picked 
together some scraps to make it up with. The whole thing was 
simply tremendous. 

We climbed up to Calvin's church, a fine one. sat in his chair, 
rejoiced to find the building free from the taint of image wor- 



262 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ship, far more so than St. Paul or Westminster, in which were 
some incomprehensible things. 

I went out this afternoon to find the Scotch church but mis- 
sed it and got into a Catholic church instead. As I was in, I 
took a seat to find out what French Catholics were like. Pres- 
ently an old lady came up and requested the donation of one and a 
half sous for the chair I was in. I handed it over. There was a 
great parlance going on in front and people coming and going 
out and policemen in cocked hats promenading and people bob- 
bing about, kneeling here and there, making imaginary crosses, 
getting through as soon as possible and putting out to the streets 
to join the frolic. The stores were mostly closed and a great 
big jollification was going on- I couldn't spend Sunday this way 
so I concluded to go home and read the Interior, etc. sent me 
yesterday. How thankful I am that I will spend no more Sun- 
days in this way. I could have a splendid Sunday in any Amer- 
ican city but my pleasure here is to be alone. I find that the 
Catholic Church I was in this evening was the one from which the 
tocsin for the massacre on St. Bartholomew's was sounded. No 
wonder my spirit was stirred within me. 

Poor women, how they do work in Paris — Sundays and all 
days. The women are only men in France ... I still don't feel 
quite right. There was entirely too much scenery. And it was 
very cold — I'm cold yet. Crossing the English channel is not 
at all funny. I don't want to recross it tomorrow even for an- 
other summer in Europe. 

We had an exciting night, Monday night. Few slept and 
again the engines stopped, fortunately not for long or it would 
have been bad. A whale spurted yesterday and porpoise. But 
only 143 miles nearer New York. The passage is sure to be a 
long one. God grant that we may all reach safely our desired 
haven. The Captain says that there are 440 passengers and 
110 crew. We are a village about the size of Clinton afloat here 
upon the sea. I calculate that the ship weighs about 30 million 
pounds. It cost $300,000. As much would buy out our town 
(There we rolled so). All sails are set and the wind is but a few 
points off our course. 

Last night one set of the passengers were having a dance 
in the forecastle. Another was having a regular spree in the 
smoking room. A fog was on the sea and there was a constant 
})lowing of the great danger signal. So like the warnings of 
the pulpit but — on with the dance. 



AGE FORTY— 1884 268 

I have to speak this afternoon in the steerage. My theme is 
Christ and him crucified. I took part in this morning's service. 
A gentleman thanked me afterwards for my prayer. 

In the evening all of the Presbyterian ministers on board 
went out on the bows of the ship and held an open air meeting 
for the steerage passengers. Bro. Thorn of Canada presided. 
I preached. We had about 100 or more seated about us on the 
floor. The Roman Catholic passengers got up an opposition 
hullabaloo, shouting, laughing, singing, knocking, and hand- 
clapping but we carried our meeting through. The strain on my 
voice was very considerable. I was asked to preach tonight 
and was arranged to do so, permission being given us to use the 

Saloon, if no one opposed. But Canon C who is "the crank 

aboard," did oppose and so there was no service. It was a mean 
little thing to do and a disgrace to the Clergymen. Let not his 
church be held accountable. 

Netc York. I was at once brought to realize a great differ- 
ence between the American and the foreigner. The first sight 
that greeted my eyes was a darkey. The next was a great fruit 
store and plenty of bananas. And the streets were muddy. And 
oh, what an immensity of telegraph wires. And the wonderful 
variety of architecture along Broadyay, so unlike the sameness 
of the European city. I reached Alexandria and met Florence 
and also the earthquake there! And, ever since, the earthquake 
and its horror filled my mind. The distressing news from Char- 
leston filled my mind with terrible forboding. At Spartanburg 
we met another quiver of the earth. I went to Tom Law's, took 
tea with him and spent the evening at his hoUvSe. I was sorry to 
hear of the trouble in his church. He will be a very great loss to 
our Presbytery if he leaves us. I have also heard that Mr. Fair 
has left Laurens. What a pity. I wonder what is to become 
of our little Presbytery. At Laurens all the talk is of the earth- 
quake but I w^as delighted to know that all was safe in Clinton. 
But, oh, poor Charleston ! It grieves me beyond measure to hear 
of their distress. How welcome was the sight of "Bally" and 
the mule (Kit — Editor). How familiar was each old cabin along 
the road. How delightful the home-coming. And thus ended 
the long journey. 

September seventh — Almost every night for a week there 
are earth-quake tremors. 

September eleventh — Yesterday was a day of busy work for 
me. My heart was made sad by the funeral services of Mrs- Comp- 



264 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ton. In the evening I fitted up for a lecture on Europe, using 
about twenty four lantern views and I talked for over an hour. 
I never made as long a speech and hope not to do so again. There 
was perfect order in the hall. I could not see the people, tho! 

September nineteenth — I asked the Lord for twenty souls 
if He could see it right to give them. He has given me twenty 
and two more by letter and four others have returned to Little 
River. Blessed be God! 

September twenty -secovSd — Our college qpen^d with over 
seventy pupils. The Lord is good to give me such success in 
this great enterprise. We are not to rest in it, till it is packed 
all along the line to completion. I have a greater and heavier 
work to do for the College, than even in the Orphanage. The 
Lord is with us and that is enough. 

October — Eleven years ago this day, first this Orphanage 
was opened. As the time passes the Lord blesses. This last 
year has been crowded full of mercies. How shall I thank thee 
as I should, Oh, Lord! 

October third — I long to have my work so systematized 
that I can get to authorship. For that reason I am bringing 
myself to occupy both an office and a study. 

October fourth — Received Gertrude Griffin from Greens- 
boro, Ga. today. 

October tiventy -seventh — I don't like the memory of our 
Synodical meeting. It was large, but evolution and Woodrow 
were the only themes. I did make a speech on Foreign Missions 
which was very highly appreciated and one on Home Missions, 
too. But Girardeau and Mack had lifted the black flag. It is a 
sad pity to have such men in the church of Jesus with the spirit 
of hate that they manifest. 

November third — I had several annoyances yesterday. The 
Lord is determined to keep me humble. Our supplies are run- 
ning very low. It has been a long while since we have been so 
near the bottom of things. I must hasten the circulars. Lord 
send and help us. We still have shocks of earth-quakes. The 
severest I have felt was the one I passed through at General 
Prince's dinner table. Rut hardlv a day has passed since the 
31st of August that we have not had a tremor. We are getting 
so used to them we hardly think to mention them unless an un- 
usually perceptible shake occurs. 



AGE FORTY— 1884 265 

December — I have been very busy. We had on hand the 
•dedication of the McCormick home. That is done. It was open- 
ed this December first. I have about finished the wood work 
of the new office and if it were not for the snow and the measles 
we would be in condition to move in soon . . . Mr. Smith is now 
in the McCormick Home. Faith cottage is occupied only by the 
printing office. Mrs. Liddell is to move in on the 18th but she 
has the measles and we are sure not to get in by that time which 
is next Saturday. 



CHAPTER SIXTEEN 

1887— Age 45 

Some miserable thief broke in my study last night and stole 
three large sets of commentaries. Did anybody ever hear of 
such rascality! The Lord forgive him . . . All the latter part 
of this winter I spent in a visit to father and mother . . . Preach- 
ed twice for father on Sunday to audiences of twenty and twenty- 
four respectively. I wonder how any one can get up the divine 
afflatus with that kind of a flock. 

I do believe that I do as much visiting and more study 
than most pastors notwithstanding the heavy pressure that com- 
eth daily upon me. With it all I am happy and contented. Who 
could be otherwise with so many things to cheer and encourage. 
May God be praised for his rich grace and goodness and may He 
ever direct me, enabling me to do his will and to say "Lord, 
whither thou leaded I will follow." And then to think — after 
all this, eternal life. 

March fifteenth — I am forty five years old today. This I 
resolve on, to keep near the cross. My plans and purposes for 
this life are many but not one shall come between me and my 
dear Savior. Oh, how I long to know more about the other life. 
To win that, I can do anything for Jesus. My hope is this — God 
grant that some day my home may be there. 

March twenty-seventh — This week, in answer to prayer, di- 
rectly—the Lord sent me $130.00. I only asked for $100.00. 
This was as much as I had received in three weeks before. He 
is a good Lord and does not forget his children. My heart is 
full of a real trust in God. I know He is good, and for me He is 
a stronghold. 

April tivelfth — I was unanimously elected to the Assembly 
at St. Louis. While there was a heavy contest for alternates. 

ApiHl thirteenth — We are stuck in the mud with our college 
work. Only hard praying will get us out. 

April fifteenth — Daughter came to me today with the news 
of her engagement to Will Bailey. Am I growing old? Am I 
soon to have a daughter married ! 

ApiHl twentieth — I asked the Lord on the first day of this 

2GG 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 267 

week, to direct me by one «ict of Providence as to whether a 
certain matter 1 had committed to him would be cared for by 
him, and whether I must trust that his disposition of it would 
be for my good, the good of his work committed to me and of all 
concerned. I asked him to give his answer, "yes" by sending 
mo this week some special sum of money at each time and in 
such way as that my mind would be surely convinced. On Mon- 
day, Tuesday, no such evidence came. This day the 20th is also 
the 22nd anniversary of my marriage. It is the very day that 
I expected the business to be settled. This evening I received 
three letters, enclosing $20.00, $20.00, $20.22 respectively. This 
and no more. I consider it a wonderful and exact answer to 
my prayer, and hence whatever the course of events may be as 
to the business I put under his care I shall say Deus, lux mea, 
Salvator mens Dirige mihi vias . . . Clinton has a weekly paper, 
the Enterprise. I rejoice at it. 

May — Brother Sam Fulton, full ready for the mini.stry, is 
with me for a few days. I am glad. He has not yet chosen his 
location but will probably go to Japan. 

Organic union has been the one all absorbing topic at this 
Assembly. It is going to convulse our whole church and I fear 
rend it with violence and passion. Palmer and others are bit- 
ter in their opposition to it and proclaim their purpose to tear 
the church in pieces rather than to submit to it. This is not 
the spirit of God. My own views are that if the Northern 
church will yield to a plan for a separate African Assembly and 
will clearly assert the unpolitical character of the church I can 
conscientiously unite with them, but in the meanwhile so great 
are the obstacles in the way when the question comes up in the 
Presbytery I will vote against it, believing that more effective 
work can be done by two Presbyterian denominations than by 
one. Lord, save thy church from disaster. 

JiDie tenth — What a harvest I can make of this summer if 
I work as I ought. The study — the souls gathered — the added 
help to our orphanage. God give me strength to begin a new 
life. I know that though white hairs mingle with my beard, 
that the Master has yet thirty five years of service for me. I 
want to work till I am 80 and then if I live, to live working: 
still — till heaven is near at hand. I have been preaching 23 
years. I am not half done what God has for me, so I hope at 
least. Lord, help, bless, be with me and guide every step I take. 
I want nothing but to glorify him and to press on his work. 
Easy, precious, delightful task — to work for God. 



268 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Well, Ferdie graduates this month. So my second child 
has graduated and gone out into the world. How quickly is time 
passing. Eternity will soon be here. Glorious hopes are in its 
bosom. What brightness they give to life. The reahzing of 
those hopes will be happiness enough to pay for all the fears and 
anxieties of time. 

August — I am resting. I hope to go down tomorrow to 
Trenton to the assistance of Bro. Morris at a meeting at High- 
view. 

September — Ferdie has opened out a shop in Clinton. He 
is in a place where he will need guidance. May the Lord help 
him and give him a hundred fold success. 

September tiventy-sixth — Our college has opened splendidly. 
We have 90 already and the possibility is for a still greater 
increase of patronage. I am sure that we will have over a hun- 
dred this year. In the Orphanage and College there are now 
nearly 150 young people. This is a large number for me to be 
responsible for. I have a noble field for work. How often I 
recall the talk with Dr. Girardeau in 1873 when he tried to con- 
vince me that I should seek a broader field of labor than poor 
little Clinton and my reply that their souls were as much worth 
saving as any, anywhere. Blessed be my Master who has re- 
warded me and is doing for me more abundantly than I dared 
to ask. And there are yet things before us — what I cannot say, 
but there is growth for my little church in every department. 

October twenty-third — Tom Leitch, the revivalist a la Sam 
Jones is carrying the town before him. Oh, Lord, keep him 
from doing harm — enable him to do good. What a glorious Lord 
God is ours. During the past 23 days He has sent in $1,000 which 
lifts the Orphanage clear of debt and places our feet on the 
solid rock. I rejoice and am glad in him. He will help me in 
all my needs. 

November — I have been revolving for months my purpose 
which I will certainly carry into effect, some day of devoting 
myself whollv to the Orphanage, preaching in the Orphanage 
Seminary, where I hope to organize a "Church of the Father- 
less," but at present I am waiting for the Lord to develop it. 

I am enjoving a visit from Captain Wren and Mrs. Wren, 
my sister. 

November fweyifv-f^ecortd — T have been very busy all this 
month answering letters received for the Orphanage. I love 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 269 

this work. It is intensely practical but the Master seems to 
have appointed me to do it. I would rather be engaged upon 
literary work — work which would require more freedom from 
interruption than I get now, when so many people want to see 
me on all sorts of things and so many odds and ends of jobs 
have to be attended to. But I must begin. The years are speed- 
ing by. I am reading a good deal, mainly travels and lighter 
theology and history. It rests me to read such and gives me 
bright, fresh ideas for Sunday work. 

The year ended with a big Christmas for the Orphanage. 
I was busy ! Busy was no word for it. There was a whole week 
of crowding. During the month not less than $1800.00 was re- 
ceived in cash and $500.00 in articles of one kind and another. 
I have not gotten it all put in order and will not for a while. "He 
led me." 

1888— Age 46 

This year will find me busy on Memorial Hall. It is going 
to take me all the year. It may take a full year to complete it. 
We lay the cornerstone on the first of the 25th year of my pas- 
torate. It will be my Ebenezer, hitherto hath the Lord helped 
us. I want also to complete the college this year, that it may 
finish my 25th year with joy. 

January tioenty-sixth — There are now eighty white families 
in Clinton, fifty of them in my church and the rest in the Meth- 
odist and Baptist churches. Mine is almost double both of them 
put together. Work is going on on our new railroad* and an- 
other year will, we hope, give us close connection with the North 
and West. 

February sixth — Yesterday was a bad day but I had 170 at 
S. School. I learn that our Baptist friends had 30 that same 
day! At last it is as I fondly hoped — the "old" pastor is once 
more the center of Sabbath attraction- Lord give me grace to 
study hard to do thy work well — to be faithful in that which is 
least — as well as most. 

February twenty-third — Bro. Bell is a very ill man. I much 
fear we will lose him. Sam Fulton leaves us in the fall for 
Japan. God has placed great honor upon our Orphanage and 
church by calling us to give our first fruits to him for his work 
among the heathen. My own son's determination to study for 
the ministry encourages me greatly. God be praised for his 
goodness. Oh, that they all would go and do likewise. 



•The Georgia, Carolina and Northern, now the Seaboard Air Line. 



270 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

March twelfth — W. P. Bell is dead. A true friend is gone. 
The Orphanage has lost its treasurer, the church its trustee, 
elder, treasurer. 

March fifteenth — Forty six ! 

March twenty -seventh — My day's work now consists in ris- 
ing at six twenty, the Bible in Latin, Hebrew and Greek, break- 
fast, worship with the orphans, then correspondence, receiving 
visitors, editorial work, sermonizing, jnore reading, work till 
dinner, then two hours more of toil, then three of visiting. Now 
what I lack is in not having some positive course of study. I 
read a great deal but it is of such things as I can get hold of. 
It is not hard study. I am also doing a vast amount of writing 
concerning the orphan work etc. I am doing no solid book work. 
I propose, hereafter, to devote two hours after dinner to this 
latter and put in one or two hours of heavy reading, somewhere 
daily. I do enjoy my work. I have been greatly blessed in it. 

April fifteenth — All day to Piedmont and the busiest of 
busiest Presbyterians. I was entertained at Brother Penny's who 
with Mrs. Penny and the eight little pennies made my stay pleas- 
ant. We had much happiness, but the most important to me 
was Ferdie's reception as a candidate. Then Sam Fulton's or- 
dination to the Foreign Missionary work. And Nickels Holmes' 
licensure. All three were from Clinton Church! God be prais- 
ed for this seal of his love. We also are to lose Brother Heath. 
It is God's ordering and will be for the best. I have been think- 
ing of Professor Wm. Kennedy as his successor. 

April tiventieth — Again the Master has sorely afflicted me. 
Rush Blakely, my dear friend, is no more. I can hardly believe 
it. It grieves me to the quick. And worst of all, one of his fool- 
ish sprees — delirious — exhaustion ended him. My heart grieves 
as I think of this ending to one whom I loved tenderly and for 
whom there has been an increasing tenderness. I loved him. 
Oh, how useful he might have been, had he only conquered his 
giant. He was in no sense a drunkard. I can't account for his 
act on any other ground than that of temporary insanity. I 
preached his funeral to an immense audience filling all the church 
from the text "Lord, Jesus, receive my spirit!" 

April twenty-ninth — God has blessed me wonderfully in 
turning the thought of so many of my j^oung people to the gospel 
ministry. Nickels Holmes, just licensed, was first a member of 
my church. Dent Brannen, Sam Fulton just ordained for Japan, 
Clarke Jennings, Ed Milner, my own son Ferdie; all these within 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 271 

the year past and now I hear that Sam Byrd, Darby Fulton, 
Willie Jennings, all have the same under advisement. Oh, God 
direct them and enable me to advise them aright. How earnest- 
ly I have desired to make the Orphanai^e a great medium of im- 
portance to the ministry and the college its co-worker. The 
Lord is giving me my desires. Who could doubt such a God! 

Maij fifth — I am much exercised about the College and look 
in vain for a President. Oh, God, send us the right man. We 
want a man ! 

May seventh — My soul was on fire today as I handled the 
subject of Foreign Missons. A good man said : "It is the best 
sermon you ever preached !" My heart yearns for the day of the 
Lord to come in our time. Oh, for the rich treasure of our Sa- 
vior's presence. We had 192 at Sunday School, a large congre- 
gation at church. What an opening for usefulness. 

May — It is nine years and more since Mary's death. The 
gray hairs are beginning to show. I do not know my future. I 
have always felt that there would be a unity and a purpose to 
my life. I have never expected to die. I do not fel now that I 
will die. This is only, I take it, an evidence of exhuberant vi- 
tality in spite of my invalid ways. I only wish it were a presage 
that I am to see the Lord Jesus in the flesh. I have felt also that 
my unique life is a happy, contented one. I love my work, my 
people, my surroundings. God has dealt well with me. My only 
great trial has been Mary's death. Other things have been an- 
noyances, very serious ones some time, but that death is the only 
black shadow that has fallen across my way. How I do love 
that sainted woman. She was my joy — my comfort — and now 
my only despair. 

May twelfth — It was one of our best anniversaries — marred 
only by the rain in the midafternoon. But even that was a 
blessing in having broken up a game of baseball that would have 
spoiled our evening audience. 

Majf vineteevth — I have been much worried about our Col- 
lege lately. The teachers certainly have not the spirit of faith. 
They tell us expressly that they are working for money and 
unless they can get the money they will not serve us. That lot 
had better arrange to leav^e. Oh, Lord, send consecrated men 
and women here. I have served the people of Clinton for twenty 
five years without demanding a guaranteed salary and all has 
worked well. 

May tiventy-ninth — Another milestone in the history of the 



272 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

orphanage has passed. Yesterday the cornerstone of Memorial 
Hall was laid. Dr. Brackett gave us a fine talk. We have now 
set in to building with all our might. 

June third — Oh what a break in the steady course of Christ- 
ian morals was the ball the other night. On the down-grade 
again. 

June nineteenth — I heard a few kind words about my ser- 
mon yesterday. They were needed to cheer me under other trials. 
Will Bailey says : *'If this were any other town than Clinton they 
would think they had the best preacher in the state." Mr. Mc- 
Crary said : ''Clinton will be mighty hard to satisfy when 
you are gone." Kind words these, but the fact remains that 
possibly there is not a man in the state who receives as few 
personal kindnesses from his people as I do. I do not care for 
these things but I do feel that the absence of them implies a lack 
of interest in me personally. I have longed to fill out twenty five 
years of faithful pastoral service. I am in my twenty fifth now. 
My time is not by any means overw^helmingly full. I must work 
or die but if the Master sees that I have done all as Pastor of 
this church that I can do I am willing to resign to some one else. 
I shall thereafter feed my orphan flock and do such general 
outside work as I can. To say that I want this and to say it 
truly, would take more grace than I have and I cannot say it; 
but I am willing to yield my will to that of the eternal God. He 
knows what is best, both for me and for his church better than 
I do. 

July eighth — I am in my 25th year of pastoral work. My 
ambitions are that it should be signalized ere its close. 

First, with the increase of my church to a net gain of 225 
members. 

Second, with the completion of the college building. 

Third, with the erection and completion of Memorial Hall. 

Fourth,with the issue of my first bound volume. 

And then I propose to set out with twenty-five more years 
of good hard work. 

July thirtieth — I hope to begin work on the college this week. 
I hope to have the house entirely furnished in time for school 
and, if so, how happy we will all be. It will be happiness enough 
for Clinton to have given the Southern Presbyterian Church its 
ornhana^re and its collejre. For the State of South Carolina. 
Columbia and Clinton will be its centers of education. 

August twelfth — We now have our college faculty all ar- 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 273 

ranged for the ensuing year. Prof. Kennedy, Col. Kemper, Mr. 
Martin, all accept. Oh, God, bless our work and make it a great 
success. . . . Father preaches for me this morning. It is his 
first sermon after the passing of his 80th birthday. 

August thirtieth — I have greatly enjoyed the visit of my 
aged father and mother to me. God bless their advancing years 
with the riches of his presence. How I love the Lord for all his 
goodness to me. I glory in him. 

September fourteenth — Florence and Will Bailey were mar- 
ried on Wednesday night. Time! It flies. Senesco. Lord bless 
these dear children of mine. 

September seventeenth — My church is 11th in membership, 
second in number of members received, third in size of S. S., 
and 27th in salary in our Synod. It is in some respects the 
most interesting field in the state. 

This day, I rose in a heavy rain and read the word, then 
breakfast and worship, letters wTitten, proofs corrected, articles 
for OUR MOXTHLY. Got Ferdie off for Princeton, N. J.; then 
a visitor; next, three hour session of the faculty; dinner; the 
sick children all visited; the workmen start on two buildings; 
then a visit to our dying Brother Milner, then to Mr. Jones, then 
to Mrs. Vance and Florence; then to the session meeting, then 
to see Hale Shands who is very ill; then to the College and Me- 
morial Hall; Supper; with the children to the Baptist Church; 
after that a call at the McCormick House; and at ten P. M., 
answered a summons to see Mr. Little's dying child ; numberless 
other things. That is a sample of my day's work and I am still 
entertaining a house full of guests and enjoying my vacation ! 

September thirtieth — The past three days have been spent 
at Presb>i:ery. We were busy but I cannot say that I am satis- 
fied with the work. The most important matter was the election 
of N. J. Holmes to the position of evangelist. My church thus 
gives to Enoree both its home and foreign missionary! The 
Master is honoring me with fruit in his kingdom. 

October — Last year I received over nine thousand dollars 
for the orphans. Oh God make it ten thousand this year! . . . 
Bro. Kennedy has moved his family into the college building. 

October fifteenth — I have completed the press work on my 
history of the orphanage and will shortly send two hundred fifty 
copies to the binder. 



274 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

November — Clinton seems prosperous this week — cotton 
everywhere. Five new buildings in progress. A new newspaper 
started. Yesterday was a delightful day and fine congregations. 
The Orphanage is in dire straits and sore distress and no in- 
come. Lord send help to thy children, for Jesus sake. 

November eleventh — We are in very great straits and unless 
God speedily rescues these orphans we will be at the end of our 
rope. Lord come. 

November twenty -third — On the 22nd day, 11th month 
1888th yr. we finished off the walls of Memorial Hall. I thank 
God. 

November twenty-sixth — Dear Bro. Milner has passed away 
and was buried this day. 

November ttventy -seventh — Gifts come in very slowly. We 
are $800.00 behind last year in our receipts. 

December seventh — Within three days more than $400.00 
has been received. Blessed be God for His goodness. 

1889— Age 47 

I enter upon this year which closes the 25th of. my pas- 
torate, with an earnest praver for the help of God. First, to 
keep me young, fresh, active, interested, faithful, prayerful, 
zealous. Second, to crown this year with a harvest of precious 
souls. Third, if it be his holy will, to show me great mercy to 
the orphanage and college. Fourth, to show me what new things 
to begin. 

March eight — Alas! Mrs. Jennings was buried yesterday. 
Another member with God! Mackie comes to the orphanage. 

March ninth — A visit from Sam Byrd. He too has conclud- 
ed to study for the ministry. Blessed be God. All our Senior 
class now go to the Seminary. 

March twenty-eight — I have been reading Drummond's 
books on Natural Law in the Spiritual World. Oh, God, be my 
environment. Dwell in me, Lord and teach me that I may know 
of the doctrine that it is thine. Lord, Lord, I long to be so 
fully alive that I may touch thee. 

Api'il — Oh, blessed Master. I come to thee, in this hour of 
my distress of soul. Thou knowest the doubts that overwhelm 
me, the anxieties that distress me. Lord, I long for thy word 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 275 

to give me light. I have suffered these two months in secret 
fear and open pain. Master, deal gently with me. I am thy 
child and in anxiety of heart I beseech thee, comfort me, Oh, 
Lord. Show me where and how I can get relief and what I 
ought to do. Lord, shall I cease this preaching? Thou knowest 
that it is like the pang of parting, to close my voice and no 
longer speak of Thee, Master, but it presses on me that such 
is my duty. What shall I do. Lord. I am puzzled beyond mea- 
sure. Lead my mind into the light. Lord, above all things I 
want to know that I am pleasing Thee and that Thou dwellest 
in me. I want to be surrounded by Thee and I want to be in 
Thee. I want a sweet, calm peace in Thee, a trustful rest in 
Thee and oh my blessed Lord, above all things I want to know 
that my Redeemer liveth. Thou hast led me through fear, dark- 
ness (not light) but great bitterness and agony. My Master, 
bring me out into the light, that I may be with Thee and abide 
in Thee. There is nothing but thyself, Oh Lord that can give 
me solid comfort. Hear me for my Savior's sake. 

April sixteenth — 

Ye fearful souls, fresh courage take. 
The clouds ye so much dread 
Are big with mercy and shall break 
In blessings on your head. Amen! 

I was so grateful to be able to give my second son. States, 
to the ministry. The Lord be praised ! Lord make him a use- 
ful minister! I earnestly dedicate all my boys to the service 
of God in His church! Lord, claim them all. 

April twenty-seventh — Nothing written in this journal for 
a number of days. I still walk under the shadow of physical 
suffering and anxiety but know that God is good and that he 
forgets me not. I have earnestly prayed to him for health and 
restoration to my pulpit. I wonder if I may take the verse on 
which my eye lit as I picked up my Bible as a message from Him 
— "I have seen thy tears — I have heard thy prayers — I will heal 
thee." Oh, that it may so prove. 

May sixteenth — On Sunday 1 was privileged to conduct the 
Sunday School for the first time in three months. 

May nineteenth — Alas, I am suffering sorely from my throat 
again and away from home and helpless. Oh, Lord, in my ex- 
tremity I come to thee. Master help thy poor child. Thou art 
my light, thou only Lord, keep me in thy hand and forget me not. 

May twenty-third — I am back home again, busily at work. 



276 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I intend now to stick at it, taking plenty of exea^cise, looking 
after my spiritual and physical condition, studying the nature of 
and using all remedies to cure or alleviate my throat affection. 
It is very probable that I will be compelled to surrender my 
preaching. Still I thank God that I have been enabled to do 
25 years of good work for him. 

May thirtieth — I have had a great amount of v^ork to do, 
getting moved into Memorial Hall. We got in on the night of 
*he 27th and on the 28th Bro. Thornwell delivered his dedica 
tory address. The day was made glad by a telegram from Mrs. 
McCormick offering us $3,000 to build another cottage! It was 
a message from God, an answer to prayer and it indicates to 
me length of days yet to come in the Master's service. I also 
received the first donation (from Pearl Gatherers) to the Geor- 
gia home. God be praised for all his mercies. 

June tenth — Yesterday — splendid congregations, the largest 
S. S. assembly ever held in one room — 211 present. 

June sixteenth — Things that used to annoy me a great deal 
now disturb me but little. I am growing callous or have I learn- 
ed that "all is momentary that afflicts us." The miserable ef- 
fort to injure our college by the Ball-loving members of my own 
and other churches which has stirred up the town and which 
has all its arrows aimed at me has given me no sort of concern, 
except a godly sorrow for the sinners. We had a splendid con- 
gregation yesterday. Ferdie is giving us some good sermons. 
He is a young man of great promise and I know no one I could 
wish for as an associate in my ministerial work better to my 
notion than himself. 

June tiventy-eight — We had a big commencement week. 
Everything passed off galore! It was quite a success and I 
feel that Clinton College — the child of my dreams — will yet be a 
grand institution. We have made a break in giving degrees to 
Rev. McPheeters and Law — and I behold myself hkewise D. D. 
by Erskine College — Rev. William Plumer Jacobs, D. D. — ahem! 
It does seem as if the Lord meant to celebrate my 25th anniver- 
sary by resting me, doctoring me, and otherwise advancing my 
work. I don't percieve that I am a bit wiser or bigger than I 
was before. 

Juve thirtieth — Having received no money for three days 
I made a special prayer for help. The same day I prayed, Mr. 
Cornelson (who had received no circuhir) wrote, enclosing me 
one hundred dollars which I received last night. This is another 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 277 

one of the ten thousand "accidents" that are happening in my 
experience. 

July eight — Father and Mother are spending a few weeks 
with me. God bless their old age with care and comfort. 

Jidij twentieth — Our large clock is now up and is striking 
away at the hours. It is a very great improvement and is in- 
tended to regulate all our affairs. The bell can be heard all 
over the town. 

Juhl tirentij-six — Father left me today to go to James Island. 
God bless that dear old man and spare him to us for many years. 

July twenty-seven — I preached this morning a forty minute 
sermon without trouble, adopting a conversational style. I thank 
God that there is now the probability that I can fully resume my 
work- I cannot go back to Rockbridge, however. 

August — Three months ago I asked the Lord to assure me of 
eternal life by doing four wonderful things for me. First, to 
restore my health and this He has done so far that I seem to 
myself to be whole and well. Second, to free the college of debt 
and this also he has done by removing every cent of indebtedness 
and having a little balance in the treasury'. Third, by doing 
some wonderful thing for the orphanage. His reply was to give 
me $1000 endowment, $350 for the clock and $3000 for the Har- 
riet Home, to give Our Monthly its largest receipts and the whole 
orphanage work $14,000! Fourth, to bless my church in some 
special way and since then He has led five of my young men 
(one my own son) into the ministry, (and he hasn't done yet) 
It seems to me that I have the clearest right to believe — First, 
that God hears my prayers. Second, that He has in store for me 
eternal life, and greater privileges and blessings than these 
can no one ask. As the mercies of this year, they are beyoaid 
measure. My heart magnifies her Lord and makes her boast 
in Him. 

August six — Lord, keep me from getting into unprofitable 
newspaper controversy. But help me to do my part toward 
composing the unhappy differences in our synod over the evo- 
lution controversy. Is it too great for thee? 

September fifth — The dream of many years is about to be 
realized, and Clinton is to have a new Railroad. God has been 
very, ver>' good to me. I am still studying whether or not it 
is my duty to give up my pastoral charge. I made up my mind 
that if, without my asking, the Lord should send $10,000 to en- 
dow the Orpahnage for the president's salary, I would take it as 



278 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

the Lord's way of saying to me: Confine yourself to the in- 
stitutional work. But, oh my Lord, restore my health. I think 
one thing only will restore it and that is a more active and less 
anxious life. My anxieties all come from the church. I will go 
straight on and do my duty to the very best of my ability, in 
every field the Master gives me. 

September eighteenth — Another week in bed. The Master 
is teaching me as well as helping me. I feel grateful for this 
illness, although it has brought me a great disappointment, a 
failure to get to Presbytery for the first time in 25 years. 

Ferdie preaches for me for th6 last time today as he goes to 
the Seminary tomorrow. I am now to assume fully my pastoral 
labors. A few months will enable me to judge whether I am able 
to do it or not. Lord, help me. Today our hearts are broken by 
the sad tidings of Willie Jennings' death. He was to have en- 
tered college today as a student for the ministry. Oh, God, what 
meaneth this? Today college opened splendidly, about 80 enrolled. 
A large number of boarders in! More young men than ever 
before. Thank God for his blessing on the Presbyterian College 
of South Carolina. 

September twenty-second — How grateful I am that God has 
enabled me to establish the Presbyterian College of South Caro- 
lina. Nor will I rest till it is established. It must have four en- 
dowed professorships. 

September thirtieth — The town is excited over the grading 
of the new Railroad which is rapidly progressing. There is a 
probability also of our getting the Columbia, Newberry and 
Laurens to this point. If so, we will have to rise to the majesty 
of our city-hood and work like everything to keep Clinton right. 

October eleventh — Just at present I am pushed worse all 
round than ever I was before. Lord send help and light. 

October eighteenth — Our efforts have set the N. C. Presby- 
terians to work. They are about to found an orphanage. It is to 
be seen whether they will run into the dangers that many in- 
stitutions do. 

November — Oh, my God come to the relief of our orphans. 
Master, we are 800 and 1000 dollars behind! Thou canst save 
and thou alone! 

November sixteenth — I am casting about to see what work 
the Master has in store for the next year for me. He has taught 
me not to rely too surely on the future. He can cut me down 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 279 

at any time, but his will seems to be that I should work each day 
with all my might without either knowing or caring for the 
future. 

November nineteenth — I am getting much discouraged. I 
begin to think that I ought to resign my preaching work. I 
have an intense love for it and would preach every evening if 
1 were not pastor but the church is doing very poorly now. 1 
have lost twenty members by death and removal in a year past. 
Have lost several to other denominations and have gained only 
nine or ten. My work is discouraging among the Clinton people. 
I have fine congregations. Sunday School, prayer meetings but 
they are not the Clinton People. I am about to organize a church 
at Rockbridge and believe that it will be done before spring. 
That will take off twenty members. Moreover my throat has 
never been healed up fully. I have renewals of the attack every 
few weeks. 

December thirtieth — Yesterday occurred another marked 
event in the histor\^ of our church: viz: the organization out 
of it of Rockbridge Church, seventeen members having been dis- 
missed to organize it. Among these were one elder and one 
deacon. This closes another chapter. God bless the organiza- 
tion. The only other organization perfected from mine is the 
Sloan's Chapel (colored) to which over a hundred members were 
dismissed. This will reduce the membership of my church to 
under 200. I pray God speedily to revive us again. 

December thirty-first — It has been a year of honors and 
mercies and sufferings. I have never felt as near the grave in 
all the years past. I have never thought and studied so much 
about eternity. Some things have disquieted me. I have had 
trouble enough to make me feel that there is not to be pleasure 
in any work or for any man in this world and yet God has been 
very merciful to me. 

1890— Age 48 

January first — How strange it sounds to write down 1890. 
For the fifth time I have changed the decade number and very 
soon shall reach my semi-centennial — how young I feel to be 
nearly fifty. Thank God for this youthful feeling. 

January second — I received today unsolicited the first two 
gifts for the Theological Institute! There is an appropriate 
suggestion here. The Lord means me to begin that work next 
and so I will. I have also a plan, following that for which I have 



IfTW 



280 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

in hand $120 for a Library building. It is at interest and can 
wait. It is possible that the Georgia Home may suddenly develop. 

January third — The Lord has decided something for me. 
First, He has decided that Theological Building is to be put up, 
for on the first day of the New Year He brought me two gifts for 
that special object. Second, He has begun to help me with the 
Library fund. Two hundred and fifty dollars are now invested 
for that object. Third, a letter today suggests a possible $2,000 
for a library building. I humbly hope the Lord is so directing it. 

January sixth — I am lonesome. Today passed into eternity 
Prof. W. S. Lee, dear Uncle States., Two days ago he was alive 
and well and in his study. Now he is with God- At three twenty 
today, after two days of silent watching about the unconscious 
sufferer I called for a testament and read the glorious 17th of 
John. I knelt and prayed that the arm of the Lord Jesus would 
be about the poor suffering one and bear him into tha glory 
of the redeemed. There happened a wonderful thing! He who 
had been as good as dead for three days, roused up, showed 
every sign of recognition and then dropped asleep to wake no 
more on earth. God has given me a witness of the glory beyond. 
Henceforth, Oh, Master, give me a new zeal for thee. Help me 
to live a new life and at least give me that eternal reward. 

January eighteenth — I do thank God for his many mercies 
to me and so many answers to prayer. I often look over this 
journal and find where I have written my prayers and a little 
later on find the record of the prayer answered. I had forgotten 
the prayer but the King had not forgotten to answer. 

January twenty-first — I will need more money than the 
$3,000 Mrs. McCormick gave to finish it — possibly two or three 
hundred. But it will come. The Lord is good and He provides 
things in a wonderful way. 

January tiventy-ninth — It rains this evening, just the sort 
of eve to give a fellow the blues. I'll go and get a good book. 

February fourth — My poor throat is still giving me a great 
deal of trouble, but I feel that my general health is improving. 
At any rate I can work with pleasure and enjoy it. I want to 
live, if God will, to a green old age, but I can truly say that if 
I could take the step across the chasm into the land of glory, 
peace and God, I would not hesitate to do it. For me to live is 
Christ, to die is gain; — to depart and be with Christ is far better, 
but I love the work here and the dear ones, and I long to leave 
behind me a rounded, complete and finished life — with work for 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 281 

God crowning the years — clear to the end. Grant this, if it be 
thy holy will, Oh my God. 

February fifteenth — Dr. Boozer is very ill. Lord spare his 
useful life. 

February sixteenth — Our earnest prayer for Dr. Boozer's 
recovery seems to be availing. 

February twenty-fourth — There is now much hope for Dr. 
Boozer's recovery. God be praised. 

February twenty-fifth — Dr. Boozer still seems to be on the 
road to recovery to the astonishment of us all. It is the general 
feeling that he was saved by prayer and not by the skill of his 
physician. 

March tenth — Cold, snow, grippe, etc. Miss Mary Riley 
has taken charge of the domestic work at the hall. We are much 
pleased with her and thank God for sending her to us. 

March fiftenth — I am 48 years old today. Well, it matters 
little how fast we drift onward so we drift toward God. I think 
more of heaven as I pass nearer the landing. I crossed to the 
unknown world four years ago. There were storms and tem- 
pests on the way. We had a goodly company and much to cheer 
us but we were wondering what manner of country it was we 
were about to enter. I rejoice that it is a good country to which 
I am hastening. But I am here still. I mean to do some better 
work in the incoming year — Lord, send thou the very best thing 
that I need to help me. Only ever let me remember Thee. Give 
me, each day, some token of thy presence. 

April fourth — I have been laid up with the grippe for two 
weeks and am still very weak. But I thank God I am able to 
be at work again, tho very feeble. One Sunday Ferdie preached 
for me and another Mr. Beattie of Columbia. 

April fifth— Oh that He would give me a $2,000 gift for the 
Library building. I know he can help by few as well as many. 
Lord send help speedily. I am praying for $500 for the finish- 
ing of the Harriet Home. I cannot ask Mrs. McCormick for it. 
She has done so much for us that we ought to be satisfied. 

April tenth — I have proposed in my heart to labor for the 
next ten years for the erection in Clinton of a Presbv-terian 
Church building that will be an honor to the town and a blessing. 
It must be of granite and contain the audience room, Sunday 
School room and ladies parlors, library room and reading room 
and must be heated by furnace and lit by electricity or gas. It 



282 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

must be a $20,000 house when completed with stained glass 
windows, pipe organ and iron ceiling, slate roof. For the Or- 
phanage I hope during the next ten years to build the Techno- 
logical Institute, The Georgia Home, the Nursery, the library 
and to make large additions to the Printing Office and the Sem- 
inary. But I leave the guidance wholly in thy hands, Oh Lord. 

April eleventh — I have an easy time now with letter writing. 
Gertrude helps me on the typewriter wonderfully. 

April twenty-six — Ferdie was licensed to preach the gospel! 
God bless the lad and make him a noble preacher of the word. 

May nineteenth — The Orphanage property now, at a liberal 
estimate is as follows : 



Home of Peace and furniture 


$5,000 


Bee Hive 


2,000 


Memorial Hall and furniture 


5,000 


Faith Cottage 


2,500 


Seminary 


6,000 


McCormick Home 


4,000 


Harriet Home and furniture 


3,500 


Printing Office 


1,000 


Scottsville 


500 


Seed House 


150 


Point Comfort 


200 


Barns, etc. 


350 


Value of land and fencing 


5,000 


Endowment 


12,000 


Cash on hand 


1,000 



Total $48,700 

This is below the value. That is what the Master has done 
for us but it is much less than He intends to do fdr us. 

May tiventy -eighth — This was a good day. We dedicated the 
Harriet Home and set it apart to its great work. We received 
$500 from Mr. and Mrs. McCormick to furnish it. We received 
$100 from Mrs. Harriet McCormick for repairs on the McCor- 
mick House. We received $200 for support and furnishing fund. 
God be praised for his great goodness. 

June fourth — I am grateful that God is crowning our efforts 
in the cause of education. Ferdie is getting on nicely in his plans 
to build Alumni Hall. He thinks he will get $4000. God help 
the lad and give him success, and favor in the sight of all the 
people. And keep him encouraged. 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 288 

June fifteenth — Yesterday was a sad day. Jessie Richard- 
son was buried at Laurens. I rode up to the funeral. 

Juyie twenty-ninth — Commencement is over. We have been 
just as busy as bees. It began on Friday night with Mrs. A. Fer- 
guson's exhibition. Sunday, Lowry Wilson preached the bac- 
culaureate. Monday night Mrs. Milner's musical was given. 
Tuesday morning and night the Society held forth. W. C. Benet 
of Abbeville gave a fine address. On Wednesday we had the 
graduating exercises. States came out with a diploma and re- 
ceived a prize for essay writing. On Wednesday night we had 
the address by Col. Henderson and Thursday night the Orphan- 
age exhibition. 

Clinton now numbers over one thousand inhabitants. The 
town is growing rapidly. 

June thirtieth — Thus, Lord, hast thou brought me, after a 
year and a half further of pilgrimage, to the end of this book. 
I glory in the sorrows, trials and burdens of these 18 months 
as well as their rewards. Thou didst cause me to see great and 
sore travail but thou hast also greatly comforted me. I have 
seen thy work here prosper and I have come through much dark- 
ness into much light. Oh, Lord, help me, I pray and bless me 
and give me grace as thou seest I have need. Help me more and 
more to do thy will. Help me to be a better man, to have more 
courage for my work, to labor with all my might. Thou art 
gracious in many things, thou wilt be more gracious yet. Give 
me strength, Lord, it is my prayer. Give me a happy heart and 
full of great joys in laboring. In this will I have glory contin- 
ually. Amen. With praise be to God. 

July first — Our little folks moved today into the Harriet 
Home. We will soon have Faith Cottage neatly trimmed up 
and everything ready for Mrs. Wardlaw when she steps in. 

Very probably, before the ending of this book the two new 
railways will both have reached Clinton. Lord, give me grace 
to keep silent on this disgusting quarrel over the Theological 
Seminary. 

In the evening we reached Charleston and went immediate- 
ly to the Waverly House where I had my first introduction to the 
electric light in my room. Didn't blow it out. 

Here am I out in this great wide ocean. I have put my trust 
in Captain Pennington and these beautiful engines and the com- 
pass and the chart; I am going to a place they call New York. 
It is all water between and I know not the way. Men are carry- 



284 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



ing me. My life is in their hands. Oh, Lord, give me supreme 
trust in thee. My health, my plans, may heaven help me to 
trust all to thee. "Surely" a brother said to me the other day, 
"yours has been a glorious lot !" It has. Lord, I own it, and thou 
madest it so. Lord I want to live longer and serve thee many 
years to come. I solemnly vow to thee every year thou givest 
me on earth. Oh dear Lord show me what to do. 

July tiventy-third — I am at Grand Union Hotel, corner 4th 
Avenue and 42nd Street., New York City. Yesterday was a de- 
lightful day. Our steamer ran close in along the coast. We 
passed Long Branch, Ocean Grove, Asbury Park and I was as- 
tonished at the amount of money invested in these places. For 
apparently about thirty miles, there was one continuous city of 
hotels and boarding houses ; all looking perfectly new and all very 
large and in the latest styles of art. With my glass I could see 
the children on the shore playing leap-frog; the bathers; the 
crowds coming and going. 

After locating we sauntered down Fourth Avenue and then 
down 23rd St. to the Eden Museum. Well, it was worth seeing. 
We did the wax works, even down to the last fragment of the 
chamber of horrors. The gladiators and the victims thrown 
to the lions impressed me more than all unless it was some of the 
horrid Indian tableaux. 

July tiventy- fourth — My trip to the animals was very satis- 
factory. The lions were asleep but the hippopotamus, the rhinoc- 
erus, the seals, the elephants were superb specimens of their 
kind and interested me more than anything else. A careless 
nurse came very near feeding the white bear on a baby right 
before my eyes. 

I am continually amazed at the exactness, finish and ad- 
vancement of Egyptian art in the time of Moses. The coffins 
and mummy cases required a vast amount of very careful work. 
I was much interested in the Assyrian and Babylonian brick and 
the fineness of the writing on them. It almost required an eye- 
glass to decipher the cuniform letters. The pieces of sculpture 
and the paintings were very pleasant. I must confess my taste 
is with the moderns. I prefer Rosa Bonheur to Rubens and Leo- 
nardo di Vinci- In fact Murillo is my only favorite among the 
old masters. 

We next entered the 6th Avenue elevated and were soon at 
South Ferry, had a delightful water trip to Bay Ridge and thence 
by rail through the sweet, dear country of Manhattan Beacon. 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 286 

We ran over to Brighton and West Brighton — "Coney Island" 
proper. My first exclamation was "Vanity Fair!" How could 
it be otherwise for even Vanity Fair wasn't a circumstance to 
Coney Island. The gay (but muddy streets) the gayer people, 
the still gayer buildings, the shows, the merry-go-round of all 
varieties, the big elephant, the chops and sausage houses, the 
ice-cream spreads, the whole mass of jugglery was a craze be- 
yond description. After an ice-cream at the Manhattan Hotel 
where thousands were eating at the same time, we were next 
booked for the fire works. The siege of Vera Cruz, was the scene. 
I must say it was just the grandest thing I ever saw in my life. 
The whole opened with scenes on the plaza of Vera Cruz, the ac- 
robats, dancers, bull fights, parades of the inhabitants; then the 
first gun of the conflict, the consternation of the inhabitants; 
then the rush of the American troops, the preparation for war; 
and then came the bombardment. Cannon bellowed; there was 
the incessant rattle of musketry, the explosion of amunition, 
the burning of the city, the surrender. It was a vivid, realistic 
picture. The fireworks were magnificent, a gem of beauty and 
beyond anything I had ever seen. We had a delightful return 
trip. There was music, singing and moonlight. The bay re- 
flected the lights of the city, the electric lights above Brooklyn 
Bridge; the lofty lights on the statue of liberty, and the whole 
horizon, a mass of innumerable stars, was a scene to be rem- 
embered. We reached home and bed by eleven P. M., not at all 
tired and after the most delightful day that I have ever spent. 
We expected it to be a failure because of the rain but our dear 
Lord provided better things for us. 

Just after breakfast we started down town to hunt up a 
preaching place. We went first to the University Place Presby- 
terian Church. Found a little handful, about 15 little children at 
the Sunday School, and that was all the Sunday School I have 
found today. The pastor was in Alaska and the church closed. 
We went thence to the First Presbyterian Church nearby, found 
a congregation of 30, a good sermon from a Dr. Ellison and the 
last service for three months. Other churches, passed, were clos- 
ed, fast and tight. After driving we went down Broadway. 
Every door was closed but multitudes were on the streets. They 
were not church-goers. Being anxious to see what was done for 
the newsboys I went to the lodging house on Chalmers and Chat- 
ham St., a very good building, a nice chapel and the streets filled 
with children, but no service for the summer! We then walked 
out into the Mott, Bleeker and other Streets. Such a mess. 
A whole street of Chinese dressed a la Chinese, a la American, 
a la everything and beyond the Polish Jews and Bohemians and 



286 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



streets filled up to the brim with men, women and children. 
These people haven't closed up for the summer! Vice, wicked- 
ness, immorahty. God help them. 

Finding no services we made our way up to the Y.M.C.A. 
^^23rd St/' 

One thought has forced itself on me, that the Pastors 
have circumscribed spheres of labor, do not go outside of it, 
and when the three or four hundred who are their care leave the 
city, their houses are empty and they go too; while hundreds of 
thousands of practical heathen surge past their closed doors. 
Surely there is some better way than this and by the grace of 
God I am determined to count every man, woman and child in 
Clinton as under my care unless I know him to be a Methodist 
or Baptist. The strangers who go to no church I will care for, 
so help me. Oh, my Father- 
Then I took the 8th Avenue cars up as far as 155th St. 
In 1886, a year ago, there was very little building beyond 105th 
St., but now the whole country is filled with great numbers of 
houses, huge and costly. In places, there were blocks with no 
houses above 135th St. but the streets were all paved, street car 
lines complete, the excavators at work. In a year or two. New 
York will have reached the El. Railway Terminal on 155th St. 
as a compact unbroken mass of buildings from the battery. 

The truth is that I have been so long tied to my Orphan work 
that I do not know how to get away from it. I have learned 
some incidental lessons, too, while on this trip that I hope will 
do me good forever; one of them is that I am the Lord's and 
the Lord is mine, and I will give every hour of my life to him till 
I die. 

At West Point we left the cars and climbed up the Hill with 
the precipitous slope on one side and the heavy stone parapet, 
with 30 inch coping on the other. Our walk among the buildings 
of the West Point Military Academy was a rapid one. It is a 
lovely place; the buildings are many, and all in varied style and 
excellent taste. I walked up to "Flirtation Walk" and took a 
seat and looked north over one of the loveliest prospects my eyes 
ever beheld. It has often been photographed but no photograph 
could ever do justice to the lovely tints that go to make up the 
picture. 

I went to Niagara Falls city warned against sharpers, and 
expected to be a lamb in the midst of wolves. Per contra, no- 
where have I met with more kindness, even from hackmen and 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 287 

restaurants. I fast made my way down to the new suspension 
bridge and took the falls in slowly, getting nearer and nearer. 
I was not disappointed. The great mass of water pouring down 
into the abyss seemed to be a solemn fearful story of the end 
of life. Going down the inclined railway, I clothed in queer rig- 
ging on the deck of the Maid of the Mist and took the circuit of 
the falls. Here the roar and the mist and spray and the lovely 
rainbows dazed one's conception especially as the water of 
the Horseshoe or Canadian falls surrounded me on three sides. 
Adjectives only can describe the grand emotions at this exhibi- 
tion of the terrific force of the application of the law of gravity 
to a river falling bodily 168 feet. 

I know not how much longer the Lord intends me to work 
but my earnest prayer is that He may give me many days in 
which to serve him. But his will, not mine, be done. I can 
truly say that there is no earthly prospect that I should set for 
moment over against the promised glory. My desire for health 
and life is that I may do God's will and advance his cause. 
Sometimes I feel as if the promise of eternal life were too good 
to be true, too wonderful, too soul-thrilling; and I am cast down 
with fears that I may not inherit it, but I feel sure of one thing 
that my fears are born of an intense yearning that the promise 
of the blessed book may be realized in my case. Lord, give me 
surcease of these useless fears and best of all, give me proof as 
thou hast in the past, that thou carest for me. What a happy life 
I have lived ! I have had my thorn in the flesh of late, literally, 
but, blessed God, Thy grace is sufficient for me. Well! Two 
more days in New York and then the boundless sea! Then Char- 
leston. And then home. Home never seemed so sweet before! 

I am paying this morning for yesterday. My throat is very 
sore but I am in the hands of one who careth for me. His will 
is for my good. These aches and pains and ulcers admonish me. 
I must both care for the body, draw nearer to God and scheme 
for the thorough functionoing of the Orphanage. 

I have always dreaded lingering illness. I have longed to 
live out a full and rounded life. I have not concerned myself to 
be highly esteemed among men if only the Lord's work will be 
done. But I have dreaded pains and suffering of the kind that 
has afflicted me for so many months more than aught else. Oh, 
Lord, deliver thy servant that trusteth in thee. 

August tiveutieth — This day the Georgia, Carolina and 
Northern Railway enters the town of Clinton. God grant that 
this also may be for his glory and for the good of his cause, here. 



288 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

"Perfect through suffering." For eighteen months I have 
had to bear and be patient and fear. Is it the Lord's way? Mas- 
ter, lead me out into the light. I rejoice that I have two boys 
preaching the gospel. Wilt thou not take the other boys also? 
I give them all to thee. 

August tiventy-six — The greatest difficulties I have had in 
this orphanage work is in trying to manage the teachers; well, 
that is, one teacher, whom we have employed for eight years 
but who has been a thorn in our side, a most terrible tonguey 
woman. I am trying to break her of it but I have failed and I 
put her in the hands of God. 

I have already forgotten that lever went to New York. To 
tell the truth while I learned much on that trip and am very 
glad I went, I did not enjoy it at the time. A man cannot en- 
joy anything much when he is sick. 

CKnton is growing rapidly in the matter of new buildings. 
Five or six are going up in sight of the orphanage. 

I am very anxious about my church and its work. I have 
a rule now to average one visit a day, the year round to new 
families. There are seventy families on our roll. This gives 
me about five rounds per year which I think is about all that 
the cause demands except in case of sickness. To my country 
members I do not go quite as often. I am much pleased with 
Cleland, our new professor. 

September tiventy-first — We had a five days meeting with 
nine additions in all. Dr. Shepperson and Mr. Wardlaw each 
preached three times and I once. Six of the added were orphans. 

We have now a very large family. It takes a barrel of 
flour every three days. The college has opened tolerably well. 

September twenty-eight — Eight of my members are now 
studying for the ministry. Lord, God, I give thee thanks. 

I am at home, feeling better than for months past. Oh, 
how grateful to God I am. Blessed be his holy name. I am also 
in hope that my church work will move on better. If I can get 
a complete restoration to health I will feel like working and 
where I feel like it, few people can beat me working if I do say 
it myself. Well, that is vanity. 

October — I enter the 16th year of our orphans work. Oh, 
God, make it a good year. Give me the Technical School, the 
printing office enlarged and the Library as soon as thou canst 
and make light the burden of caring for this great household. 



AGE FORTY-FIVE— 1887 289 

This day, througfh trains from Greenwood and Monroe met 
at Clinton. The college location is settled. Mr. Copeland and 
Mr. Young together will give us a handsome tract of sixteen 
acres. I rejoice. 

October fifteenth — I have been looking over my old journals. 
Some things that used to encourage me greatly were very small 
favors; as that I received $14.50 in April 1880 for the support 
fund. We must have twice that daily now or we come to want. 

October nineteeiith — Today we received into the orphanage, 
Aeoline Price, daughter of our first teacher. When will there 
cease to be orphans in the South? 

October twenty-six — I returned last evening from a very 
pleasant trip to Yorkville Synod. With quite a party we took 
the freight on the G. C. and N. to Chester passing for the first 
time over the new road. We there fell in with the great body of 
Synod, reaching Yorkville by five. I was located delightfully 
at Judge Witherspoon's. After a seven o'clock dinner, we hasten- 
ed to the church, heard a memorial of Dr. John Wilson from 
H. C. De Bose whom I nominated Moderator; the first I ever 
nominated, and he was unanimously elected moderator. My 
report on Evangelistic work was lengthily debated. Girardeau, 
Richards, McCoy and Cozby fought *it and was lost by 42 to 51. 
Girardeau then immediately turned around and made a substitute 
motion which meant the same thing. At the next Synod, to 
which all was postponed, I shall propose a substitute for Girar- 
deau's motion and shall carry it too. 

We "Settled the Woodrow case" again. I, as usual, would 
not cast a vote. I am determined to have nothing to do with the 
case in which grievous wrong is being done on both sides and 
there is no disposition to right that wrong. It looks like pre- 
sumption in me. So be it. 

I spent one evening in hunting up the sights of Yorkville 
connected with my infant days. I found the house where I was 
born, the one in which father taught school, the one in which 
he boarded when first he went to Yorkville, the Bratton house 
in which my mother died, the court house where father preached 
when first he began his work, the little old church which was 
built first — where I was baptised by God-fearing Bishop and the 
house (Mrs. Simvil's) where I spent a year after mother's death. 
It is surprising that so many of these old houses remain. They 
interest me deeply. I was told by Bro. English that mine is the 
first name appearing on the Baptismal record of the Yorkville 
church and that those early records are in father's handwriting. 



290 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

November fifth — I don't like to be driven by my work — I 
like to love it. 

December fourteenth — What a glorious work the blessed 
Lord has given me to do. These dear people in the Orphanage 
— one hundred souls to care for — this church of 200 members; 
this college of a hundred students; this Sabbath School with 250 
teachers and pupils ; this Monthly with a thousand readers. Lord 
help me to be faithful. 

December fifteenth — Yesterday I had very good congrega- 
tions and the Lord gave me help in my preaching. I am delighted 
with my studies in the life of the Lord Jesus. I see him walking 
before me. I preach of him with tremendous love. What a glo- 
rious life was his. It thrills me. 

December seventeenth — I have received $1400. My earnest 
prayer is for $3000 this month. Indeed without that sum I fear 
we will have hard times. I want to begin the month of January 
with $1500 at least. 

December tiventieth — Up to this date I have received only 
$1,528. We are far behind. Yet this, thank God, is $500 ahead of 
what we received last year to this date. The Lord can give me 
the $3000 yet that I prayed for. I have received a letter from' 
Mrs. McCormick announcing the gift of twenty acres of land 
probably worth $50 per acre in the town of McCormick. 

December tiventy-first — Last night's mail brought over fifty 
letters, enclosing $200 fdr the orphans. I praise thy name 
Oh God. I have prayed for $3000 this month. The Lord. could 
make it $30,000 if He so willed. States preached for me this 
morning. God help the lad. 

December tiventy-eight — Dear old Brother Phinney went 
home after preaching and fell dead entering his room. My heart 
is sore thinking of it. His hand was my first welcome to Clinton. 
Every elder and every deacon has slipped away to the eternal 
city of those that bade me come here. McClintock, Phinney, Co- 
peland, Henry Foster. They are all gone. And now I am to go 
forward. I begin to see old age in the near future. I am yet 
strong, in feeling young, and able to do and think as never before. 
God be with and helj) me. 

December thirtieth — The Lord has answered my prayers. 
The three thousand dollars I prayed for and that seemed so far 
away, a month ago have been received. This is the Lord's doings 
and I am both glad and grateful. 



CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 

Age 49—1891 

The years go by. I enter upon this one with the loving hope 
in my Almighty Father that makes all years good. The last 
ten years have put up our college, established our Orphanage, 
greatly increased its apparatus and changed the church from 
100 to 225 members. What a decade for Clinton — bright, pros- 
perous, happy Clinton. 

Jamiary thirty -fir fit — The total since Oct. 1st for the sup- 
port fund is over $6,100 leaving it a certainty, D.V., that we 
shall get our $10,000. Thus God has done this and not I. I 
often wonder how it happens. 

February — Ferdie has been elected Professor of the Bibli- 
cal Department in our college and will accept. It touches me 
to think that one of my boys will take the work and will enter 
upon it with zeal. God grant that this may be the beginning 
of a great day for the college and that in process of time it may 
become an institution of which South Carolina Presbyterians 
may justly be proud. I think that Ferdie has greater power 
in certain lines than I ever had. God be praised for his success. 
And may he become ever more so. 

There are now in Clinton 57 Presbyterian families, 29 Bap- 
tist families, 12 Methodist families, 1 Episcopalian. From which 
it would appear that notwithstanding the great immigration 
of Baptists to this place, the Presbyerians still outnumber both 
the others combined. I find that there are more children in the 
orphanage between the ages of 7 and 17 than there are in all 
other fifty families of the congregation put together. 

Alas ! for the sorrows of this month. Here at its close, our 
President Kennedy is dead- We have hard, hard sufferings to 
endure and we sorely miss him. 

February twenty-eight — For three days there was confusion 
on confusion. We have got things straightened and at work 
again. Cleland acts as president ; Frierson, Ferdie and Sam Boyd 
are professors. God strengthen and comfort us. We need his 
help. 

March fifteenth — Yes, today is the 15th day of March and 
I am 49 years old. There was a time when this would have seemed 
to me like being "old enough to die." and yet I am looking for- 

291 



292 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ward. God may summon me this year or He may leave me still 
till a green old age — till hale 80. Be it so, or not, I am His and 
He is mine. What is to be the record of the year, the year just 
inside of 50, the year that is to fill out my half century? 

I will do as little as possible for myself this year and as much 
as possible for the good of others. This morning I had about 
225 at church; at Sunday School there were 196. I preached 
vigorously but not fluently. On next sabbath I preach my 27th 
anniversary sermon; on the next sabbath after we have the 
communion. 

March thirty-first — I have been studying for two years the 
mystery of prayer. Two years ago it was my own life that seem- 
ed endangered and then how eagerly I studied things about the 
hereafter. It was a problem over which I thought — this prob- 
lem of eternal life and the real presence of God with believers. 
I can truly say that I gained much light but there was much yet 
to learn. For three weeks also I have been incessant in prayer 
for the life of the two girls, Lula and Maggie. All was going 
against them, and me, and I had an idea half formed that I was 
not to be heard. I plead by every thought I could conceive that 
God would hear me. And God did hear me. On the 26th the tide 
began to turn. But that day suddenly our little Ida was cut 
down. The work was quickly done. I hardly had time to cry 
''Lord spare my child." But the Lord had meant that child's 
death to be a great lesson that I needed. She did not die, she 
was translated. For while I sat by her, her little pale face lit 
up with the radiance of heaven ''The angels have come into 
this room," she said. I turned to see them. "They are passing 
over to the side of my bed, there by you. Oh, they are so beauti- 
ful, so beautiful and they have come for me." How can I des- 
cribe the sweet peace that rested on the child's face. It was se- 
raphic. Moreover it impressed me so utterly with the assurance 
of the reality of her vision that I was astonished at the dullness 
of my vision. The Master sent his shining ones to carry the 
little orphan home — his own little child. So the Lord has given 
me at last what I have long been seeking for. I have not found 
in it my heart to weep for little Ida; though my tears have run 
in streams as I have recalled the scene. Nothing in all my life 
has so touched me. Henceforth death will be shorn of much of 
its terror. The angels of God have stood by me and lifted 
almost out of my arms their little treasure.* 

^THEGATES ~AJAir 
By Dr. W. P. Jacobs 
Some of thosf who read these linos may have a little book written by 
me, about the orphans, entitled, "The Lord's Care." It falls to my lot 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 293 

• 

Api'il tiventy-third — Bethel Presbytery is fighting our col- 
lege but we still live. In fact as long as the Lord is with us, I 
am not very anxious as to who may happen to be against us. 

May — We have laid the foundation of the Library and have 
begun work above ground. I am very anxious to have the house 
completed, by the first of September. 

May seventeenth — This day the first Sunday train ran into 
this town. So now I must fight the devil more zealously than 
ever. 

June — We have elected Cleland, President of the College and 
Spencer a teacher therein. Work on Alumni Hall and Nellie 
Scott Library progresses. 

July 7iinth — I feel like shouting. For the first time in nine 
months my correspondence is clear and I owe no man anything 
in the shape of a letter. I am getting off today, though, 2000 
circulars which will give me in all probability about 200 letters 
to answer in the next thirty days. God, grant it, for so 'the 
orphans are to be fed. 

July eighteenth — I have fully settled my plans for a build- 
ing for the Technological School. It will be the largest building 
on the place and will cost not less than $5,000 and possibly $6,000. 
I do not think it can be furnished complete for less than 3 or 4 
thousand. 

July twenty-six — I am sitting in the Phoenix Hotel, Bishop- 
ville, Sumter Co., looking out on level fields and a few frame 
buildings in the foreground. It is God's holy Sabbath. This 
noon I preached to the Bishopville Presbyterians in the town- 
hall. But it was not for that, I came here. States is ill with 
Typhoid fever and I am summoned to be near him. His case 



today to add another page to that book. You may think when you have read 
it that I had better have left it unwritten, but I am led to it by a force 
that I cannot resist. I beg you to read it, remrmbering that the pen that 
writes it is driven by a bruised and sorrowful heart, and that hand is 
itself very wqiry with days and nights of anxiety. It is a sad record 
I have to pen — it is one that has already been washed with tears, and my 
soul is very sorrowful while I write. Bear with me then. 

This is no romance. It is the truth. I have often read such stories 
as this and doubted them. My name goes to this article for all it is worth. 

For nearly two months we have had a sore epidemic of la grippe and 
pneumonia at the Thornwell Orphanage. One after another, the children 
would be tjiken down with it. They were our care. 0, how we love those 
children. Do not think that because they are orphans that they have no one 
to love them. Unwearied vigilance night and day, brave >< " rifice 
week after week, has characterized matrons, teachers, older cl i, and 

our beloved, good physician. So when a child could lie for weeks between 



m 



294 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

is not, by any means, a very bad one, but it is slow and so is the 
disease but I long to put my children in God's hands. They belong 
to him. I trust them to Him, even while I pray most earnestly 
for their recovery. I learned when little Ida died that there 
were worse things than death. Nevertheless, Almighty Father, 
give my boy a long and useful life. 

I spent yesterday in States' sick room — how kind and good 
these dear people are. Dr. Dennis and Mr. Bramlett could not 
be more so, if they had tried to. God bless them. 

August ninth — I heard of Aunt Caroline's death last night, 
84. Father is now the oldest in the family. Yesterday we finish- 
ed off the walls of the College Dormitory. 

August twenty-fourth — Perroneau Hunter is dead. So snap 
the cords that wound out from my earlier days. Thank God, 
my dear old father still lives. 

September eleventh — Well, Ferdie married last night and I 
have a new daughter today. God bless their union. The wed- 
ding was a brilliant affair, — church was packed to the ceiling 
with people. Everybody was there and they said the ceremony 
was beautiful. Ahem! Poor father. God give him health once 
more. 

life and death, there were heavy hearts and weary eyes and prayers upon 
prayers. For my own part (permit a personal word to make mor€ clear 
the close of this story), for two weeks past, I have been almost unceasing 
night and day supplicating for two dear children, whose life even now is 
hanging by a thread. 

God has answered my prayers so often, so graciously doing the very 
thing that I needed most, that I wondered why He seemed to refuse when 
I prayed for the the life of my darlings. I have thought upon it until 
thinking becomes a burden. I have wondered if, after all, God did not mean 
to teach me by these refusals that I had too little faith in the invisible 
world compared with what I should have; — yet possibly I may have more 
than you, reader. Last night I lay long awake amid prayers and anxiety 
trying to persuade myself that there were greater evils than death; and 
that even should He take laway my children, I ought to say more than ever, 
"Thy will be done." I ought to believe that for them, at least, it was a 
grand and glorious thing. We all talk that way; it is quite another thing 
to act upon it. 

But the Master has taught me the lesson at last. This day, while 
busy in my study, a message came, "Come at once to the Harriet Home, 
little Ida is very sick. 

Ida wias a little girl of only ten summers. She had been very ill with 
long weeks of illness, but had recovered and we all thought that she was 
safely well. So this new stroke falling on our hearts while sorely troubled 
for others, seemed more than we could bear. 

Be patient, reader, I must tell you the story in my own way. When I 
raached Ida, the physician and matron met me with a face that could be 
read. The sudden congestion was doing its work terribly quickly. The 
child was dying. But the doctor gave me a word of caution. "iSho is i)er- 
fectly consious. She knows and talks." And so I found it. Stooping 
over her, she motioned to me. She asked "if her mother could be sent 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 295 

Septennher thirteenth — Father has been so sick for six weeks 
that I have been unable to attend to any visiting but I have de- 
termined to give two hours every afternoon to pastoral visiting 
while he remains with me. If he gets well enough, I will go on 
with him to Nashville. God grant that he may. 

September tiveiitieth — This week past has been one of an- 
xiety about father, now however partly relieved. Dear little 
sister Bessie has been with me and it is a great joy to see the 
dear girl once more. Dear child ! It is a long while since I saw 
her last. Elliott is winning her way into our affections. We 
all love her. 

September tioenty-six — On this day the last stone was put 
into the walls of the library for which God be praised. And on 
this day the carpenter force was discharged from Alumni Hall. 
For this too I give thanks. States has returned to the Seminary 
and father is sitting up. Oh, Lord, help. 

September twenty-seventh — We had 217 at Sunday School 
this day. This is the largest attendance the school has ever had !' 
My morning audience was as large as the house could hold. Bles- 
sed be God. For the first time in the history of the school we 
have averaged 200 for the month. 

November fifteenth — On the 12th next I started out for a 
quick run to Atlanta which I reached a 12 :30 that night. Stop- 
ped at the Markham and the next day was down at Decatur. 
Spoke and presented the Orphanage to the Synod. They were 
rejoicing over the fine attendance. I was all day with "Bill Arp'* 
— met his son and daughter and had a ver}' agreeable day with 
him. 

for, and if she could get here before tomorrow," We comforted her as best 
we could, when presently her matron left her side weeping. I saw that 
something unusual was occurring and hastily took her vacated seat. Then 
this little girl, with a very bright, sweet smile, from which every trace 
of pain was gone, said to me: "Mr. Jacobs, the angels have come into the 
room." I looked astonished at the child, at first scarce understanding 
what she meant. At first it occurred to me that her mind was wandering, 
and that this meant death, but the intent look I fastened on her face was 
responded to with one of keen intelligence. Her mind was not wandering. 

"Do you not see them," she asked; "they're passing across the 
bed; there are two of them," she explained. Then I aiw heaven light up 
in the child's face. She lay looking into thin air with a loving, longing 
gaze, whispering, "They're so beautiful! Oh, so beautiful!" 

I could say nothing, for when turning to me again, she said: "They're 
standing just by you;" it seemed a place so solemn, so near the gate of 
heaven, that I hardly dared breathe. But my eyes were fixed on her, nor 
could I move them, for the child's face shone with a smile of such sweet 
expectation. Her lips moved. She was so weak that I could not catch 
the sound. I put my ear close to her, .and she whispered: "They have 
come for me." 



296 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

DeceTTiber third — I earnestly prayed God a few months ago 
that the result of my year's work, as it is the 50th of my life, 
would be the addition of fifty members. Blessed be his holy 
name, the prayer has been answered and more than fifty have 
been granted me. This is another special and peculiar answer 
to prayer. This is the first year in my ministry that I have 
received so many. But God has answered so many of my prayers 
that I know not how to remember even^ special and solitary in- 
stances. 

Among the results of our meeting is the fixed purpose on 
the part of Cornwell Jennings to study for the ministry. He 
will be the fourth student from the Orphanage. 

December twenty-fthird — I start down to Newberry in an 
hour or so to unite Laura Whaley to Yancy Miller in marriage- 
I sit here in the gloaming and remember the past. Those were 
sad days that first surounded me when first Laura and Lucy 
came to the Orphanage. Mary was taken up to heaven shortly 
afterward. I have never seen her since, but it is the joy of my 
life to believe that some of these days, we will meet again. I 
have been very deeply impressed by Ida's death last spring. 
Often it has seemed to me that I have been among the angels, 
as I did that day. They are certainly near us but what visions 
they have of the present is more than I can say. It is a glorious 
thing to believe that only a thin wall separates us from the in- 
ner glory. 

Thrice notably has God answered my prayers. First, in 
enabling me to carry out every one of my plans for 1891. Second, 
in the assurance of eternal life, this perceiving little Ida. Third, 
in the granting me 52 souls this year, one for every year of my 
life and two over. God, thou canst do even greater things, yet! 
So Lord, give me courage to pray and wait and work. I trust. 

Then she slept, with the linprering smile still upon her, and her calm 
little face stamped with the mark of her first interview with the angels. 
And that smile, noticed by all, she is wearing still, in death. 

Dear reader, I know that you will say, that this can be explained on 
scientific grounds, and all that. But had you been where I have for the 
last few weeks supping with sorrow, if you had turned with a cry to God 
for light upon that dread unknown whither so many loved ones have gone 
but yesterday, or the day before, you would have known what this means. 
In nearly thirty years of pastoral experience, I have helped to close many 
eyes, and more than once felt that something unusual was occurring, but 
never aught like this. 

Take it, kind reader, for what it may be worth to you. You may deem 

it unwise in me to rehearse the story, but at least you will shed a tear 

over the orphan's grave, remembering also to help the living. Each day 

we rise in fear and trembling, lest the blow should fall again. We need 

your prayers. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 297 

Every single desire set down at the opening of this year 
has been given me. My sermons have been more practical and 
I often hear from them. Second, the Library building has been 
completed and in addition a cottage for Mr. Watts. We have 
also made a good start on the Technical School- Third, the Sun- 
day School Institute has been enlarged and improved and that 
to better advantage, than I planned. Fourth, Alumni Hall is 
built and occupied. Fifth. I have written much. Sixth, the 
Lord has added 52 souls to my charge. Blessed be God for 1891. 

1892— Age 50 

January — I have work before me for this year, — the failure 
of the crops throughout the South and the unrest everywhere 
will make it hard times for the orphans. But I will work on, 
trusting in the Only Lord. 

Oh, God, be gracious to me this year. This is my 50th year 
of life. I end my half century on the 15th of March. Make me 
very fruitful in good words and preaching. 

January sixteenth — I have been laid up with the grippe for 
nearly all the week, doing very little work. This day — at this 
very hour, 13 years ago, died my precious Mary. She is not for- 
gotten but the memory of her love and gentleness continues 
with me still. 

Ferdie has nearly succeeded in paying for Alumni Hall. 
Oh, for some big money to be given to our institutions. 

February — Ferdie is getting along nicely in his college work. 
He is raising a good deal of money. I pray God that it may be 
good work and well done. The Dormitory is now entirely paid 
for. Total additional property gains for the College since he 
took charge, about $6000 besides nearly $2000 of notes. The 
old property is worth about $10,000. 

March first — Here I am on the first day of March, sitting in 
the country room of the Lakeview Hotel in this little city of 
Leesburg, Florida. Little thought I, one week ago today, that 
I would be here. But the hand of death was laid suddenly on my 
sister's husband and here I am (detained for the day and night) 
on my way to help her. The trip has (shall I so call it) a sin- 
gular incident connected with it. A few weeks since I received 
a letter from Mrs. McCormick sending me a gift of $100, asking 
me to lay down my w^ork for a little while and go away from 
home. I put the money aside and wondered how I should use it. 



298 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Then I wrote to her, telling her I was very busy and had no 
time for such a journey just then. God had provided the means, 
in a way I could have surmised and then drove me away, no 
doubt with ulterior objects in view, that may be for the greatest 
good, both of my sister and myself. He only knoweth. 

March fifteenth — I am this day fifty years of age. I cease 
today to climb the hill of life and start down the declivity. 1 
have passed the "dead line". It is sweet for me to pause here 
and make a few reflections and resolutions. I am not going to 
look backward today. Often have I done that in the past, mea- 
suring step by step the work the Master sent me. I look forward 
and press on. I do not know how long I am to live. If it be till 
four score or even four score and ten, every day of it will be 
spent in thy service, Oh God. I am determined to know no rest 
till the end come. Every year I will begin new studies and un- 
dertake new works. I may die this day but if I do not die till 
I am 90 this I set to my seal, that I shall busy myself about my 
Father's work, while I have my being. I may be, in time, laid 
aside for this or that sort of duty, God only knows, yet will I 
find some sort. So help me God and keep me steadfast ! I find 
myself in fairly good condition, physically today. The next ten 
years, I will choose to make better ten than those just behind me. 
Gray hairs are coming fast. Let them come. I will not care. 
But I must let in no sigh, no whining, no yielding. Yet 1 
look forward to a goal. To live eternally with Christ is the un- 
utterable longing in my soul ! There is no desire that I have that 
is for a moment comparable with that. It is everything with 
me and as the years fly past, the longing grows stronger and 
stronger. Oh God, — all powerful! In thine own good time 
grant me eternal life in thy presence where there are pleasures 
forever. Today on the 15th of March we opened the Nellie Scott 
Library, and also threw out the foundation dirt from the Tech- 
nical School. I received some pleasant souvenirs of my 50th 
birthday. Why should a man be counted old at 50? For my 
part, I feel that I can do better work than ever. I notice that 
my imagination is not so brilliant, and that I am not as fond of 
using illustrations as I once was but I prefer to hammer away 
at a given point till I get it sharpened for use. Neither am I 
afraid "of that which is high". My plans increase and enlarge 
in number. There are broad views to bo taken of things and 
I love to take them. I find myself desirous of impressing my 
views upon larger masses of men. Once I was content with 
bringing my little church to think with me. Still, I love this 
little town. I am delighted to see it grow and to know that I 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 299 

have given it two such institutions as the College and the Orphan- 
age. God has enabled me to prove that a faithful worker in a 
village may make his little field a tower of strength to all the 
state. Moreover, the faithful win honor. I have no talent. I 
have only faithfulness and common sense. 

March twenty-six — It was one year ago this day that the 
angels brushed past me, to bear away in their arms our little 
Ida. Yesterday they came to the Orphanage again. Perhaps 
they will be here all the while. Where would you expect them 
to come, more than to an Orphanage where Jesus is? Little 
Ava* was gathering chips at the woodpile. She rushed after one 
and the ax that she had not noticed struck her a fearful blow in 
the head. It was surely an angel's hand that caught back the 
little one. Within a thousandth part of a hairsbreadth came 
death but our God would teach us that their spirits are nearer 
always than we think. These are strange coincidences. Surely 
there is a lesson in them and I think I have read it aright. The 
child lives. Blessed be our God. 

March twenty -ninth — I have another wonderful story to 
relate. Last evening I was greatly troubled over our receipts 
for the support fund. We are 130 dollars behind our receipts 
of March of last year and but a few dollars received since ten 
days ago. Last night I carried my trouble to God and I prayed 
in this way, "Lord, men say that there is no use to ask special 
things of thee and set a special time; they would discourage 
even thine own elect from prayer. Lord, give me a hundred 
dollars tomorrow and make our receipts for this March equal 
to those of last March. I do not ask this. Lord, to test the power 
of prayer. God grant it and my poor faith will be made stronger. 
Refuse it and it will be alright, my master. But Oh Lord, for 
thy poor children's sake, refuse it not." The first letter received 
this morning contained a one hundred dollar bill! Another 
wonderful coincidence. Not so, my Master. There is no chance 
in this life. It is all law and order. 

April first — Mighty good news begins this month. Gus 
Smythe pledging $2000 for another cottage. And if we wish 
we may begin at once! Blessed be the name of the Most High. 
Moreover, we have completed the foundation of the Technical 
School and the first stone above the ground is in place. More- 
over Cyrus McCormick will give the Harriet Home a piano. 
God's name is to be praised! 

April twenty-first — I have just returned from a hurried trip 
to Asheville, N. C. where I met Mrs. McCormick. I was much 
* Now an unusually successful missionary in China. 



300 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

pleased witK the dear old lady. She was quite sick. God spare 
her precious life and keep her in health. My stay was at the 
Battery Park Hotel where everything is in handsome style at 
$5.00 a day. But my expenses were all paid. I made a quick 
trip. 

Maij eight — At 10 P. M. Saturday night I married Oswald 
Richardson to Emma Duncan. 

May sixteenth — Yesterday I had 226 at Sabbath School, the 
largest I ever had. 

May twenty-third — Last Saturday night I was summoned to 
Greenwood to bury my dear friend, Mrs. Ellen Bailey, a good 
true woman. I got home at 2 A. M. This morning I preached 
at Greenwood Sunday morning. I noticed that Greenwood is 
greatly improved since I rode over it last. 

May twenty-eighth — This day, twenty-eight years ago, I 
took charge of the Clinton, Duncan's Creek and Shady Grove 
Churches. This day 18 years ago, we laid the foundation stone 
of the first building of our Orphanage. In all these years, amid 
trials not a few, the blessed Master has been with me. He has 
helped me — but I have been sorely wounded. Will I ever get 
over the loss of my darling on the 16th of January 1879? But 
that shall be to my joy some day. How much I will have to tell 
Mary when I see her next and what wonderful things she will 
have to tell me! Well, the years are going swiftly by. As I 
look back I feel that all my success has been from God. I wonder 
at the way in which He has led me. Clinton like Bethlehem was 
one of the least among "the thousands of Judah'* and my father's 
house was but small among them but the Lord gave me favor in 
the sight of his people and has blessed our little village by giving 
us a good name and one to be honored- But I am going to look 
forward — not backward. Hard as the times are, this is my 
"building year." I will have two houses to get forward be- 
fore another May 28th, D. V. both must be completed and 
occupied. 

And if it be his will, I have a personal ambition that a child 
or errand-child of mine may succeed to work when I am gone 
and succeed in the work. But, oh, I would rather my name be 
utterly blotted out, than that such a thing should happen to the 
dishonor of God or the discredit of the work. 

Jinir — I am going to do my best toward living a kind and 
tender-hearted sympathy for everybody. God make my advanc- 
ing years evermore full of sympathy than the past. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 301 

Tune nineteenth — We have finished another commencement 
week. The speeches were not brilliant. Dillard was among 
the graduates. His marks were good. Oh! That God would 
put it into his heart to go into the ministry. 

Ferdie has completed the woodwork of the Professor's Cot- 
tage at the College. We hope very soon to have it all paid for. 
We begin on the new cottage for the Orphans. 

Juhj twentif-ninth — Several days ago I was offering special 
prayers for some large gift for our Technical School in view of 
the great need of money to put on the roof. To my great de- 
light and surprise, I received $1,000 for the endowment shortly 
after. I then went to the Lord and told Him how grateful I 
was and asked if He could not as easily help me with the roof- 
ing of the building. By last mail he sent me $200. Oh how 
I rejoice in Him. He has answered my prayer. And He will, 
by this earnest of it, show me that I need not fear but may go 
forward and complete the building. Bless the Lord, Oh my 
soul and feorget not all his benefits. 

5 P. M. Since writing the above I have received $100 for 
the Technical School. Also other favors. God, my father, thou 
art very good and with all my heart I thank thee. I can now 
venture to order the roof material. 

August — We are entirely out of money and my earnest pray- 
er is that the Lord will send help. 

September — Father and Mothej and Minnie are still with 
me and will be, I think till nearer winter. Jim Little is very 
low. May Almighty God spare his life that he may become more 
useful. 

October — We begin this day the 18th year of our Orphanage 
life. Last year was the very best we ever had- Over $10,000 
for the support and $5,000 for buildings — over $2,000 for en- 
dowment — in all over $17,000. I thank God and pray him for 
yet greater things. He is my life and my joy. 

October ninth — I want to get a great deal done in the three 
months that remain in this year arranging my plans for the best. 
God help me. I can do nothing without him. Oh that He would 
send me $500 at once for the Technical building. 

October fourteenth — God is very good. The very next en- 
try after the actual prayer is this — God has sent me ONE THOU- 
SAND DOLLARS, twice w^hat I asked for, enough to finish the 



302 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Technical building! Oh blessed Father, how shall I ever thank 
him enough for all his goodness! Mrs. Jane R. Dowie was the 
instrument He used. Lord raise up other friends, I pray for 
this work. 

October sixteenth — I have just begun a series of lectures on 
the life of Moses ; I wa^it to make them about 20 in number and 
as interesting as possible. 

October twenty- first — Instead of going to my own Synod 
I took a buggy to Laurens and thence via Spartanburg — Char- 
lotte to Statesville, N. C. where I entered into my rest at J. W. 
Copeland's. Next morning I was one of the Synod of N. C. 
Went on an excursion to Barium Springs. It fell to my lot to 
deliver the dedicatory address for the new orphan houses. 
Whether my address was satisfactory to myself is exceedingly 
doubtful but it seemed to touch the hearts of the brethren. A 
great many of them came up with the warmest kind of praise.* 

I had a good day on Sunday — fine audience and was en- 
couraged in my preaching. Blessed be God. I am now preach- 
ing a series of sermons on the life of Moses, — at night. His is a 
splendid character and there is so much of the vivid, the pathe- 
tic, the surprising, that I will have no trouble whatever in mak- 
ing my sermons exciting and interesting. The series will occupy 
about 20 winter sabbath evenings. I had 225 at Sunday School. 

October twenty-seventh — When a whole Synod votes me such 
thanks as this, I ought to feel grateful. 

'The Synod of North Carolina, having heard the instructive 
and inspiring addresses of Rev- W. P. Jacobs, D. D. on the ac- 
casion of the dedication of the two newly erected cottages for 
the Synod's orphan home, hereby tenders to him its thanks with 
the assurance that it is our sincere conviction that his address 
will prove of incalculable benefit to our promising and beloved 
institution." 

November nineteenth — Hampered in body with throat aches 
and wrist aches and side-aches; but thank my God for his mer- 
cies in having sent us relief from distresses. And best of all 
Clinton has stepped out nobly. Mr. Scott has received aid to the 
sum of about a hundred dollars from Clinton merchants. Me- 
thodists and Baptists have done about as well as the Presbyter- 
ians. This year gifts to the Orphanage from Clinton will foot 

*The dedicatory oration was delivered by Rev. Dr. W. P. Jacobs, which 
for unction, tenderness and power, excelled anything: we have heard for a 
tong time. The Doctor seemed to touch every heart, men wept. — News Item. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 303 

up fully three hundred — possibly four hundred dollars. My heart 
thanks God for this as an evidence of mercies yet in store for us. 

Oh, how grateful I ought to be to my God for growth. I 
am not yet an "old man' but I have passed the "dead line". 
May God grant that I may bring forth fruit in old age. My 
throat and lungs give me some anxitey, but my tru.st is in the 
blessed Master that He will care for me and make me a great 
success even down to the end. 

November twenty-third — On this twenty-third day of Nov- 
ember 1892 I have determined, God helping me, to do that for 
which I have long been planning, viz. to open up a Mission train- 
ing institute in connection with the Orphanage and College work 
here. I propose to place this school on a crood basis from the 
very beginning and by Sept. next to begin operations. I have 
this day written to Dr. Houston for suggestions and now I lav 
the matter before thee, Almighty God, pleading for thy guidance- 
Long have I desired to do something especially for the salvation 
of the heathen. This opens the way. I cannot go myself but I 
thank thee, Oh my God, that I may be the means under heaven 
of turning a few of the outcasts, by the hands of others, to thy 
feet, Oh Lord. 

December fifth — Yesterday I had splendid congregations 
at all the services. All the hoUse could hold. My congregations 
have been excellent for months. Oh, Lord, send a revival. 

December thirty-first — Well, Lord, here I am at the end of 
1892. Thou hast given me the right hand to lean upon this year. 
As a little child I cling to thee. Oh, how gratefully. 

1893— Age 51 

January first. The day is dark. It is God's day. I am so 
hoarse that I cannot preach. There will be enforced rest for 
me. But my two sons, States and Ferdie will divide the services 
between them. I bless God for my two boys. I have two others, 
both dedicated to the King. May He claim them both. 

January twenty-fourth. On Friday night, the last night of 
Dr. Guerrant's services and before anyone had expressed a pur- 
pose to become a Christian, I suddenly remembered my prayer 
of last year to God, to give me 50 souls in commemoration of my 
50th anniversary. Then it occurred to me to say "Why not 
again, now! Is it too much to ask? Is the Lord's arm short- 
ened, that it cannot save." I remembered that 24 had thus far 



304 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



been joined with us, this year and so I said to God — **Lord, give 
me another 26 to be added to these." Was it an accident that 
at the meeting of the session, yesterday morning, just twenty 
six were received on profession of faith? Oh Abraham, thou 
mightest have saved all Sodom, hadst thou but done one more 
"peradventure." 

January tiventy -seventh. How wonderful are God's deal- 
ings with my church in the past year. ^ We received our s)ixtieth 
member yesterday and I think there will be more next year. For 
two successive years this little church is to be at the head of the 
roll for members received in our synod. My pastorate is bring- 
ing forth "fruit in old age." Thep how glad to be able to say 
that no other church in our whole southern assembly has, so 
many candidates for the ministry as mine! Blessed be my mas- 
ter. It is hard to realize that this is the tittle mission church 
of 30 years ago. Work and the blessing of God and persever- 
ance toward a prescribed end has done it. But mainly — ^the bless- 
ing of God. I want every day to thank Him. He has made my 
life a marvelous success, along the line I chose. And I feel that 
He will be with me in all things till Jesus comes. 

March fifteenth. — We formed the Southern Presbyterian 
Company last night. The paper with all its belongings will be 
moved to Clinton. It does look as if God was going to bless 
our little town and make it a tower of strength even as I asked 
him to do years ago. I shall trust Him for even greater things, 
though it does look as if I ought to say "enough Lord ! But I 
remember Him who said ''Open thy mouth wide and I will fijl 
it." All my heart's desires has God given, except a very few. 
The Orphanage with its more than 100 pupils. The college, 
thoroughly equipped and organized. The Mission Training 
School under way. The Southern Presbyterian to be moved 
here. All of these things I longed for. 

March tiventy -first. My dear daughter's youngest child, 
little Mary Dillard was taken from us this day. The sorrow is 
intense at parting with her but the babe has a grandmother now 
some fourteen years in heaven that will take good care of her 
till we all get there together. 

April. This is Saturday, the first of April. On this bright, 
beautiful morning I write my first words in the new Technical 
building in my bright cheerful office. I have been permitted 
by the good providence of God to complete this building at a 
cost of $5000. I am now beginning to labor for its furnishing. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 305 

Oh, Lord, how earnestly I pray that all this work may be safely 
accomplished. Be with me. Oh, my Master. Keep me from sin. 
Help me to study well and prayerfully and faithfully. Help me 
to devote much of my time to writing and let this room become 
for me a spot where I become imbued with the spirit of the au- 
thor. Make me more and more anxious to improve in these 
things every day I live. Lord, help me to raise also all the 
thousands of dollars needed to direct and help forward this 
work. 

April twenty-fourth. We are sorely pressed now, financial- 
ly, some of our improvements will have to be discontinued. We 
need money, wherewith to buy our necessary food. Lord send 
help to these children. 

Maij. I was very busy all of last week, attending Presby- 
tery at Laurens. It w^as particularly interesting to me as dur- 
ing its progress, Ferdie w^as ordained to the gospel ministry. 
The same week. States was examined and will shortly be or- 
dained Pastor at Edgefield Church by S. C. Presbytery. Both 
my boys will take their first seat in Synod in their old home, 
Clinton. God be with them. I have two other sons that I have 
given thee. Lord. Cornwell Jennings, one of my orphan boys 
was also received. So two of my orphan boys are now in pro- 
cess of manufacture as preachers of the gospel. 

May seventeenth — I am learnig to ride the bicycle. Have 
had several falls but am persisting. 

May tiventy-seventh. A lame wrist makes it almost impos- 
sible to write. I was riding on a eiafety bicycle when I did it, 
but I am learning to ride all the same. 

June. How rapidly life is slipping away. I have much to 
do yet to solidify the work. But I do thank God that I have 
accomplished so much. Who would ever have dreamed in the 
wildest flight of imagination that my church people would own 
the Southern Preshyteriaiu 

July ninth — Well I have become a bicyclist. I have ventured 
on the streets. But I do not confess to be hyper-graceful. 

July sixteenth . I rejoice that the world's fair is to be closed 
on Sunday. I can go now. I would not have done so with a good 
conscience, otherwise. In fact I could not have agreed to it at all. 

August thirteenth — My dear father and mother are with me 
and will be all summer. They are now making my house their sum- 



306 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

mer home. They go to Florida this winter, I expect. God has given 
me the care of them, I expect, in the place of my own children. 

Our big gasoline engine is now set in place. I will be off for 
Chicago on the 17th and will not be able to get it going. But Mr. 
Mallard will know how to take hold and get it into working order. 

Chicago — The crowd was simply immense. It was the big- 
gest crowd I ever expect to see again. ^ 165,681 paid admissions, 
besides 30,000 free passes. Possibly over 200,000 in all. It was 
human heads as far as the eye could reach. I am simply over- 
whelmed by the ms/ssiveness of the multitude. What will it be 
in God's great day? 

Septemher — While I was in the city of Chicago my little 
grandson William Plumer Jacobs, Jr. was born. God bless the 
lad.* 

Miss Ella Bell, Maggie Burleyson, Janie Duckett have met 
here to form the first cl^s in the training school. I am encou- 
raged to go forward. 

I have a realizing sense of this awful fact that when God 
would sweeten a man's life and lift him up to a higher plane, he 
does it by some fresh baptism of blood. This morning I can say 
with the Master, '*My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto 
death." 

September seventeenth — All last night I spent from dark 
till sunrise in an agony of prayer. Oh, my God if I have done 
from my infancy till now, one thing against another, I know not 
when it was. My Master, I come to thee. My soul is poured out 
within me. Surely it was Satan himself that continued to make 
m.y good evil spoken of and to set at naught all my past. But 
Oh, my God, who didst deliver thy servant Job, I flee to thee. 
Help me. Master for my heart is broken. I know that a thousand 
times since my dealings with these children I have had occasion 
to do that which only a father may do for them but thou knowest 
I have been to them a father and that I would have my arm torn 
from its socket sooner than I would harm a hair on their heads. 
Oh, Master, save me from this hour for it is Gethsemane with me. 

Septemher eighteenth — I thank God for the experiences of 
Saturday. It was the first time in my life that I ever spent a 
whole day in prayer. Very, very often have I spent the half of 
it so. Besides this I learned a very salutary and important 
series of lessons. 

September tiventieth — Among the evils of a settlement like 

* At present, 1937, President of the Presbyterian CoUeffe of South Caro- 
lina. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 307 

ours at the Thornwell Orphanage — it is one that for 18 years has 
distressed me — is that of gossip, tattling and backbiting. We have 
so many ladies here. All are not godly, and unsanctified human 
nature is a hot bed where weeds prolific grow. I have been think- 
ing of the best way to prevent this evil and I have determined 
that persistent kindness to all, absolute refusal to allow gossip 
to be brought to me with immediate endeavor to reconcile parties, 
and living a godly life myself are very good terminatives. 

To comfort me, the Lord has just sent a young man to con- 
suit me about entering the ministry — ^three in a month. 

September twenty -third — It seems that Mrs. W — is at the 
bottom of the evil words that wounded me so. I do thank God that 
I can look back over my life here at this Orphanage and can 
truly say that I have done no child aught but good. But now, 
even my good is evil spoken of. 

September twejity -fourth — Nothing is so much to be feared 
as fear. The innocent heart should trust in God so strongly that 
it can truly say **I will not fear what man can do unto me!" 

October fifth — I am comforted by the receipt of one hund- 
red dollars sent by one person in direct answer to prayer offered 
on the 28th or 29th. I think it was so because on that day I 
made a special plea that God would send me that sum, $100 was 
in my mind, as a proof of his love to me and to comfort me. The 
money was sent shoii:ly after the prayer was offered, from N. Y. 
from a gentleman from whom I had no right to expect it as 
he gave recently and whose gifts have always been peculiarly 
associated with our times of distress. I cannot think but that the 
hand of God is in it. The peculiar part of it is that I do not know 
why the donor sent it, or how he knows of our distress. I will 
trust thee. Lord, at all times. 

I am going to ask that the money from the legacy of Mrs. 
Fairchild be turned into the "Fairchild Infirmary." It is abso- 
lutely needed. 

Father preaches for me today and I am therefore compara- 
tively free. 

November — Mrs. W — is very ill. 

November fifteenth — Poor Mrs. W — . I left her very ill and 
trials many at the Orphanage all coming on me because there is 
not enough grace in the hearts of some of my officers. 

On the 25th of this month our Matron, Mrs. W — died, after 



308 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ten weeks sickness with all its trials and worries to me and all 
its pain. Today I bury Mr. Green, the last link to my official 
corps of 30 years since, snapped. 

December — I have been very much pleased with the work in 
the office. It has been a pleasure to see Dillard work, the way 
he has. He has taken hold with vim. Christmas tomorrow. 
I have always loved Christmas but it costs me much money. Still 
it helps the cause and I am very glad.^ 

DeceTTiber twenty-six — My upper room is very quiet. It is 
a room of prayer and faith. I do more prayer here than in my 
former study. Now, Lord, help thy child. 

1894— Age 52 

This year fills out my 30th year as a gospel minister. I am 
growing older and yet not old. I have 20 more years of work in 
me. But I love God and I hope for eternal life. 

January fourteenth. All of our railway bonds have default- 
ed payment of interest. Evidently the Lord is teaching us not 
to trust the Orphans' dollars to such sabbath breaking concerns. 

Among the events of the month was our securing a Cottrell 
and Babcock press for the Tech School. We have not yet used 
it but it is well built and looks to be all right. Anqther event 
was the coming of Professor Savastano and his stereopticon. 
Well I had a time with the professor trying to get things all 
straightened out for him. He had an ''esplosion,'* of gas that 
came near ending his work. Then there was the licensure in 
the orphans' chapel of Darby Fulton and Will Owings. I have 
been privileged already to send out three young preachers from 
the Orphanage and six more from the church. 

February. Sometimes I am astonished at the amount one can 
do by steady, straight forward labor. A little at it, every day, 
builds a pyramid at last. My office work, I close daily at 12 
noon. I then am at home till three thirty. I visit to tea time and 
read till bed time, unless I have a circle or a prayer meeting or 
something of that kind. 

February tenth. Our heavenly father has decided that we 
are to build the infirmary. He has sent me two gifts of one 
hundred dollars each, within the last week. It is clear to me 
that this means "arise and build". I am glad for I wanted to 
celebrate the 20th anniversary of our first cornerstone day with 
yet another. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 309 

Mcirch twelfth. On yesterday morning at S. S. with 250 
pupils and teachers around me I was stunned by a telegram 
handed me, by whom I know not, telling me that on sabbath 
morning, at twelve thirty A. M. my dear old father was suddenly 
summoned to his glorious reward. I am so sorry to part with 
him. No man on earth is as dear to me as he is and yet, I 
would not call him back. His work on earth is ended and now 
he has gone to his exceedingly great reward. Dear old father, 
how tenderly I loved you. It is very hard to think that I shall 
see you and speak with you no more on earth. My heart yearns 
to you. Alas! Little thought I when we parted in Atlanta after 
that evening meal that we were to meet no more this side of 
the eternal throne. But I shall meet you there my father. The 
wheels of time's chariot fly swiftly. I am already on the down 
grade and the way will seem very short when it is all over. 
Lord, help me to live that I may know how to die. 

March fifteenth. I went to Atlanta on Monday, met Bessie, 
and Father's remains there and on Tuesday he was buried in 
my square in the Cemetery. Dr. Bean officiated. It has caused 
me great sorrow of heart to bid him good-bye. It has been a 
great joy to me to know that my dear old father was still alive 
and I feel older from this on. No one knows till it has been tried 
what the death of a father is. Dear father, we will meet again. 
Till then, farewell. I am this day 52 years old. I have long 
since turned my face toward the sunset and because the day is 
shortening, the work must be driven. 

March nineteenth — I have enjoyed Sister's visit and Bessie 
Lee's very much and am sorry that they go home today. I am 
pressed day by day with "labors more abundant." I conduct 
365 services with the orphans yearly. Also 204 prayer meetings, 
50 official meetings. I preach 104 times. I conduct sabbath 
school 52 times. I meet the training class a hundred times a 
year and have meetings with faculty, committees, orphan-of- 
ficials, synod, presbyteries. I visit 300 times a year outside of 
the orphanage and 1200 times a year inside of it. It does not 
wear and weigh upon me to do this nor to write the thousands 
of letters nor the articles for the press nor to do all the innum- 
erable little things. I love the work. I love to be busy. God give 
me health and strength sufficient for me and 3pare me till the 
future of the institution is assured. We have been very busy 
in our shops and on the farm. The destructive freeze on the 
26th was a fearful loss to the beauty of this summer. The trees 
w^ere shorn of their foliage. The fruit all killed. We are in 



310 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

distress about it. But God is good and there is something for all 
of us to do. 

Avril. This far into April we have had an exciting time. 
Tillmans' war on Darlington and Florence County broke up last 
Sunday's quiet and kept us reading the news. We had a fine ex- 
hibition of the Aurora on last Friday night. What a wonderful 
world we live in. And what a wonderful universe it is about us. 

April twenty -seventh — Prof. Savastano is here w^orking up 
our photo gallery. Dillard has concluded to learn the business 
and will also have charge of that part of our Tech School. I am 
delighted with the aid the lad gives me. May God grant that 
his life may be noble and that if he is to be my assistant he may 
become a consecrated young man with the whole soul given to 
the Lord's work. 

We have about as much of a town in the Orphanage as all 
Clinton was, thirty years ago. We hope for good things yet for 
the little village. God prosper it and grant his highest success 
to our plans. 

May — During this month we will have the anniversary on 
the 12th and we will lay the cornerstone of the infirmary on 
the 28th. We will also elect a President for our college Vice, 
J. I. Cleland, resigned. The Lord direct us to the right man! 
It is a matter of grave importance for the present and for the 
future interests of the institution. 

May twenty -eighth. This is a historic day for me. Thirty 
years ago I was ordained Pastor of the Clinton Church on the 
300th anniversary of John Calvin's death. Annually since May 
28th, 1874, when the cornerstone of the first building was laid, 
the day has been observed. Today we all set up the corner- 
stone of the infirmary, which, like that of Memorial Hall in 
1888, of the Library in 1891, of the Tech School in 1892, marks 
a new departure in the work of the Orphanage, rounding it out 
to something of completeness. 

I hardly feel like praying for an endowment for fear that 
I, not to say, we, lack the financial ability to care for large 
sums but I would rejoice greatly if there were such an endow- 
ment as would enable us to support the institution easily and 
give me more time for quiet work. But God knows what is best 
and I feel sure that all things work together for good. 

May thirty-first. I believe in God. It is my joy to be able 
to say that from the heart. I believe in a God very present, very 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 311 

near, very close. I believe He loves me. I believe that He will 
direct all my ways for me. I thank him for his special present- 
abiding mercies. Oh, that I had his strength in my heart, that I 
might live very near and very close to him without fear all my 
days. Oh, how I thank him for having kept me from great 
sins all my days. Lord, it is hard to keep from little sins, very, 
very little sins, that go to make up the aggregate of one's daily 
life. Dear Master I am thine. I trust thee. Lead me in a 
plain path because of mine enemies. I heard a man say the 
other day he had not an enemy in the world. I wonder why 
it is that I have so many. Is it because I have done a kindness 
to so many? Or because the Lord would keep me humble? I 
often tJiink that all Babylon would come tumbling about my ears 
if I allowed one high and haughty thought to get into my heart. 
My only, my hourly cry is Lord, keep near me. 

June twelfth — Commencement is in full blast. It is the best 
and best attended commencement for a long while. Rev. E. C. 
Murray is our new president. I am grateful to God for sending 
us so good a man. Goodbye, Cleland. You have been a sore 
thorn in my side but I forgive you. I thank God that I can say 
in all my dealings with you, I have acted like the Christian you 
ought to be — a Christian gentleman. God send us peace — full 
peace, glad peace, and a growing prosperous college. 

We, i.e. Dillard, and I, have sent out the minutes of Presby- 
tery. We will get out Our Monthly next week. I will begin 
my circular work also. We are engaged in the home stretch for 
vacation. 

June thirtieth — I spent last night, all night, tossing with 
anxious thought. How good God is and yet how little I know of 
him. I am sick, today. But my confidence in God is greater and 
I have comfort in believing that He is very near me. I will trust 
and not be afraid. Lord, give to thy servant to live and serve 
thee till His work is done. 

July sixth — I have received this message from God today. 
"Fear not ! 'Tis God's own voice that speaks to thee this word." 
It came in a very singular and prayerful way. It was a little mes- 
sage in time of deep despair. And it saved the day. 

July fourteenth — Again broken do\\'n! Oh, that I had cou- 
rage to trust wholly in the dear Lord and to believe that all that 
he does for or with me is just the very best and right thing to 
be done. Lord, help thy poor child, I pray. 

July sixteenith — Dillaixl passed his twenty first birthday 



312 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

last week. Thornwell is now my only "child", and he has gradu- 
ated from college. 

July twenty ninth — Sam Fulton has translated my little 
Easy Question Book, and Lessons about Jesus, into Japanese 
and is teaching them to the little ones. What a joy to feel that 
I am doing work beyond the ocean. 

August — My God, deal gently with thy servant, during this 
coming year and enable thy servant to deal truly with thee! 
Do I beheve that God hears prayer? Lord, I beheve. So I 
enter this new year with trust. Thou wilt be a good Lord to me 
and wilt help me with thy glorious love to know and to believe. 

August second — Yesterday was a good day for me and these 
dear children. The mail brought in a $2,000 check, the payment 
of Mrs. Clarissa Fairchild's legacy — the same to be devoted to 
the infirmary. That lifted from me wholly and entirely the an- 
xiety I had for the building. I am now able to push it right on to 
completion. God put it into the heart of the adminstrator to 
send it to me long before it was done, just so that we might be 
relieved. In several other things the dear Master has answered 
my prayers and I wish to thank him with all my heart. My 
way is clear now. And I will trust him for everything. 

I always think with sincerest self-sacrifice of this work, 
here. I can truly say that I have gained greatly in certain ways 
from my relation to the Orphanage, even from a worldly stand- 
point but the institution is costing me more than $300 annual 
allowance I draw from it. If I were to close my house and only 
ask board and lodging from the institution I would immediately 
diminish my expenses by four to six hundred dollars. I glory in 
the fact that my work is almost given. 

August tenth — This is my dear old father's birthday. He 
has been in heaven these six months. Had he lived he would have 
been eighty-six this day. 

But I will not consider my health, good or ill but simply go 
on and serve God the whole of my life. I am 52 years old. I 
can live to 90 if I am careful to do my best work and to keep at 
it. Let me not concern myself with anything but 

First, to be holy; 
Second, to be useful; 
Third, to be wise; 
I aim after these three. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 313 

Augui^t twelfth — I am sorry to say, Thorn well has typhoid 
fever, and it will be impossible for me to get off on my pleasure 
trip as I expected. 

I want to thank God for his infinite goodness in having an- 
swered my prayer for $600 during the month. He gave it to 
me and even more than I asked for. I asked it especially at a time 
when it seemed impossible to expect it. I asked it as a proof of 
his tender love. The strangest thing is that I should have needed 
such proof. But so it ever is with those who truly love. Is it 
not a glorious thing to say — "God loved me.** 

September eleventh — It is very good indeed of my dear Lord 
to accept Thornwell as a candidate for the ministry. My heart 
is full. I have been grateful beyond expression that my child- 
ren have grown up in the faith. To train them without a mo- 
ther's tender care is no easy task especially when such other so 
great cares have rested on me. God be praised for his goodness 
to me in this thing. It is in answer to prayer. 

September sixteenth — I spent last week delightfully at Pres- 
bjiiery at Glenn Springs. It was one of the most delightful Pres- 
bjieries I ever attended. I am delighted to record the reception 
of Thornwell also as a student for the ministry. I have now given 
three of my boys to the ministry. None of them have cost the 
church a dime for their college course and none received free 
tuition in college. God be praised for his goodness. 

September twenty-fourth — On last Monday I left for Nash- 
ville, reaching the city on Tuesday morning. Henry met me 
and took me to his delightful home. I had three delightful davs 
in the citv in the bosom of mv loved ones. I rode all over the citv 
both morning and evening. Visited the Monroe Harding Or- 
phanage, the County Asylum for the poor and the insane, the 
Fisk, the Vanderbilt and the Tennessee Universities, the pamp- 
ing station and reservoir, the various churches. On Tuesdav night 
I helped Mr. Charles Little and Bessie over the great burden of 
getting married. On the whole I had a gladsome time and en- 
joyed the thing well. 

September twenty-seventh. I married Lou Jones and George 
Copeland last night — a nice little affair. 

October — We closed our Orphanage vear on last night. The 
receipts from all sources were, in round figures: 

Printing Office $ 961.00 

Endo^^^nent 175.00 



314 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Buildings, etc. 3,790.00 

Support 11,787.00 

Tech Mfg. 782.00 



Total $17,495.00 

The Lord trusted me with the management of that much 
money. Lord have I been faithful? If so, Master, may I look 
for more this year? 

Ah, Lord, I have tried to do my best. I am sure, I might 
have been more careful, more economical, but at least I can say 
this, that I have helped these orphans, robbing myself. My 
heart is sorely grieved for their sakes. Oh, that they were good 
and noble and that they repaid thee for all thy care of them. 

October fourteenth — Mother sent to me 300 books from 
father's library, a few days ago. I have put them in my office 
library. I have a nice little library of about; 2000 books. I 
still cherish all my fondness for books. God has given me many 
tastes to be gratified and opportunity for gratifying them. 

October nineteenth. I prayed "weary and anxious and tir- 
ed." "Lord, why canst thou not do great things for me. Send 
me a large gift. Lift this load from my tired shoulders. Lord, 
I am sick and tired." "Before thy call, will I answer." Yester- 
day evening brought one letter after four days of waiting. In it 
one large gift of five hundred dollars. Oh, my father I thank 
thee for money. But I thank thee that thou hearest me when I 
call upon thee. Help me yet, Oh, Lord. 

October tiventy -seventh. I have had a very pleasant ride to 
Greenville, attending synod. I was honored with the privilege 
of speaking at the Home Missions Meeting and Mr. Gower's 
funeral, and on several minor occasions. I stayed with Mrs. 
Alice Ferguson and had a pleasant time. Nothing special done. 
Bro. Murray brought up the college and tried to get it "adopted" 
but failed. I think it best to leave that matter alone. We had 
better trust in the Lord than in the Synod of South Carolina. 

November. And it is the 9th of the month. And I am again 
in room 50, Markham House Atlanta. Tomorrow the planet Mer- 
cury at eleven A. M. makes transit of the sun's disc. As for me, 
my transit is only from Clinton to Columbus, Miss. 

I weighed just now, 124 — 3 pounds less than my maximum 
but it has been a long while since I weighed my maximum. I 
am afraid I am "swunk" as Bessie Lee said of the dried apple. 



AGE FORTY-NINE— 1891 315 

I am now going to Columbus to dedicate States' Church for 
him. ^ 

One thousand miles travel to preach one sermon — well! I 
was delighted to see how much States is loved and appreciated 
here. I succeeded in getting up early enough to go to Sunday 
School. There were 106 present but it was a rainy day. I spoke 
to the children and also preached to the best of my ability. The 
church is a very nice, large brick building, cost $15,000. I 
would be perfectly satisfied with as good one at Clinton. I 
dined with Will Lee and took dinner with George Boozer. I am 
to take dinner with some more kin folks. The people all seem 
kind and cordial and say such good things about my boy. 

November thirteenth — Yesterday was an ovation. Every- 
where it was handshaking and congratulations. God grant that 
States may be able to fill the expectations of this people. They 
seem to love me for his sake. 

November seventeenth — The Lord is trying our faith and 
teaching us to say, "Though He slay me. yet will I trust in him." 
Our receipts are fallen far short of our necessities. And our 
prayer is — Lord send us help with a strong hand and with an 
outstretched arm. I trust him. It is all certain that He will 
forsake his children never. It looks as if our receipts for the 
month would be only half of what they were at this date last 
year. 

December thiHieth — On this day I record the fulfillment 
of another earnest prayer. At the beginning of the month I 
prayed that God would give me $3000 during December. He has 
done so and today I wrote down the sum $3010 in my ledger. 
God surely is near, helping me with my work. I felt that I must 
have that sum or I could not go away on my pilgrimage with a 
satisfied mind. But I ought not to have doubted. And now I 
must pray my master to arrange things that I may leave $2000 
in the treasury. I would have better asked for $3000 but I 
fear I have not the faith to ask it. I know the Master can surely, 
easily give it but it may not be best or right. Indeed I 
know it will cost $2500 to support the orphans while I am away. 
But I can trust the Master to set in motion all hearts so that 
a thousand or so can be raised while I ana away! And, now. 
Lord, direct thy servant in his preparations. Speed me on the 
way I am going. Prevent any untoward circumstances while I 
am going or from interfering with my departure. Give me 
a safe journey and care for all things while I am away. 

He has given me the $2000 surplus for December that I 
asked for. 



CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 

1895— Age 53 

April twenty 'fifth — Well, I am back home and never so glad 
to be here. Twelve days since I landed in our beautiful little 
city after a delightful trip of 800 miles from New York and 
15000 around the rest of the world. I have already lectured and 
preached some half dozen times about my journey. Last night 
I used the lantern to our audience that packed the seminary, so 
there wasn't standing room.* 

May ttventy-fifth — Financially the Orphanage is in sore 
straights. We need immediate help. Lord, send relief and do 
it speedily. 

July tenth — In this disagreeable and distressing affair with 
Mrs. F — I thank God that my conscience is absolutely clear. 
The poor woman glares at me like a maniac and would ruin me 
if she could. Indeed with her poisoned tongue she tried to do 
her worst. But, thank God, I have clean hands. Since my in- 
fancy till now I can truly say that God in his goodness has kept 
me from any wicked thing. I comfort myself with that. Even 
Jesus was called "gluttonous and a wine-bibber, a friend of pub- 
licans and sinners." If the Lord endured the contradiction of 
sinners against himself, so also can I. It is very hard to have 
your good evil spoken of, your best motives misconstrued, all 
your efforts to be kind met with gall and your name cursed and 
reviled. Still I have received good at the hands of the Lord and 
shall I not also receive evil? I place myself in his keeping. I 
trust myself in Him — And I pray that as He has done great 
things in the past so may He yet use me for his honor and glory. 
I am his. I believe and trust in Him. 

July seventeenth — How my heart yearns and longs for sym- 
pathy is more than I can tell. It is sometimes a terrible loneliness 
that assails me and the feeling that I must journey on to the End 
with none so close to me that I can unbosom myself to them. 

July twenty-ninth — I have been full of thoughts of my poor 
lost darling for weeks past. I cannot forget. The love I bore 
her is as strong today as ever and my continual cry is Oh, Lord, 
let me see her sweet face again. But betwixt us is the gulf of 
death. 

*The story of this trip to the Meditoranean is told in his little volume 
"To Jerusalem and the Regions Bcvond." 

31G 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 317 

August — states is with me. Gave me a very fine sermon 
last night. All who heard him were pleased. 

October — We lost Mrs. Green by death. She left in her will 
$1000 in legacies to the Orphanage, the college and the church, etc. 

October — I went over to Catawba Junction on the 23rd 
and had a ten mile wheel ride to Rock Hill to Synod. We offer- 
ed the college to Synod and were refused. Very fickle is the 
favor of princes and Synod. 

November fifteenth — We had a delightful trip to the Atlanta 
Exposition. Miss Addie Sloan, Cleo and Mollie were under my 
care. We dropped out into the streets of Atlanta, into the howl- 
ing mob of hackmen about night and were literally embraced 
by the darky coachman and lifted into the selected coach. Our 
hostess, Mrs. Miles, 79 Walton, received us \\ith a bright smile 
and made us glad that we got there. That night we we?it out 
to hear Moody. Sam Jones was also present. I was on the plat- 
form, was called on for prayer. I liked Moody's talk for talk 
is was — no sermon. In fact it was a very plain, simple talk. 
The next day we gave wholly to the Exposition. The show was 
about one tenth that of Chicago. The one tenth was first class, 
however, and well worth seeing. The fireworks at night were 
particularly good. 

Mrs. Green has willed $700 to our church building. This 
will be a great help and most delightedly will we accept it. I 
must now preach the doctrine "Arise and build". We must have 
a new church building. 

December seventh — I received by Saturday's mail the de- 
lightful intelligence that Mrs. McCormick intends to give us the 
$5000 necessary to build and furnish a new cottage to be called 
Edith Home. God is thus forbidding me to cease my efforts for 
his children but to go on building till the good work is complete. 
I accept the work. He will open up some suitable way for the 
support of the orphans and to make the institution a grand 
success. I do heartily adore him for what He has already done. 
I now plead with him to make this great work thoroughly suc- 
cessful in its interior management. 

Deceyyiber eleventh. I want to get my people enthused with 
the purpose to build a new church. There is some hope of our 
getting it done. Lord help me. 

We have organized our Cotton Mills. I am elected a direc- 
tor. My purpose to accept it for three purposes: 



318 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

First — To have an influence in locating the same. 

Second — To have a word as to religious and school priv- 
ileges for operatives. 

Third — To have my say as to regulations in regard to moral 
character of the operatives. 

These were not the things in the minds of those who elected 
me. God speed the work. 

1896— Age 54 

''BE DILIGENT" 

My schemes for this year: 

First, To begin the work of building a $15,000 church. 

Second, To erect the Edith Home. 

Third, To repair Home of Peace, move the stables and es- 
tablish the farm work. 

Fourth, To encourage the College. 

Fifth, a revival in my church based on earnest pastoral 
labors. 

April — I have had some severe trials also and the month has 
told on me, but the Lord has greatly cheered me. Our new build- 
ing the Edith Home is getting on nicely and Mrs. Lees has given 
us $2500 to remodel and furnish the Home of Peace. I never 
asked God for anything but what he gave it to me. 

June seventeenth — Today Sallie Richardson died, my de- 
parted wife's only surviving sister. Tonight I made Molly Mason 
my daughter by adoption, the relation to be sustained to me per- 
sonally. God spare her to me and make her a comfort and a 
blessing. 

September — The necessities for next year will be yet greater 
than for this. We will need $14,000 for the support fund, we 
will need $1,000 for the Repair fund. We ought to have $5,000 
for Artesian Well, water works and laundry. We need $500 
for the library. We ought to have an increase in endowment. 
Indeed we may confidently look to God and believe He will 
do these things for us. He is good and greatly to be praised for 
what he has already done. Lord, keep me from such alarms 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 319 

that try my soul. Keep us from contagious diseases. Keep us, 
above all from sin. 

October first — Twenty one years ago this day we opened the 
orphanage. We will celebrate the day with speeches, receptions 
and the dedication of the Lees Home to the good work. As I 
look back I can see how wonderfully God has helped me both to 
plan and execute. I have trusted in him and he has surely been 
with me. Today I wish to glorify him for all He has done. His 
name be abundantly praised and to him be all the glory. I have 
set down the value of our property. 



177 acres of land 




$5,000 


Industrial School 




1,000 


Library, Home and 


books 


3,000 


Lees Home and furniture 


7,000 


Bee Hive 




1,500 


Memorial Hall 




5,000 


Faith Cottage 




2,000 


Seminary 




6,000 


McCormick Home 




5,000 


Harriet Home 




5,000 


Augustine Home 




2,500 


Infirmary 




4,000 


Academy 




2,000 


Edith Home 




5,000 


Technical School 




10,000 


Farmer's Cottage and stock 


1,000 


Out Buildings and 


stock 


1,500 


Endowment 




17,000 


Lands 




1,500 



$85,000 

There are legacies due us of about $5,000 more. 

November ticeuty-ninth — I have been so expressly busy since 
my return from Columbus, Miss, that I have had no opportunity 
to narrate my delightful experience connected with my son's 
w^edding. States and Laura came back with us and we enjoyed 
their society amazingly. Laura is a lovely girl. States has made 
quite an addition to our family. I had two nights and part of one 
day in Atlanta, stopping at the Kimball House where they 
certainly take things free and easy. 



320 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



1897— Age 55 

March seventh — We have been very successful in our or- 
ganized church work during March and the month preceding. 
I have received 48 members thus far into the year and I think 
by God's grace I will make it 50. The church will pay me a 
better salary this year. We set out to raise a thousand and we 
will get nearly that sum. We have also employed Thornwell to 
work in the factory population. I have succeeded in raising 
$100 for that work. The K. D. and the L. A. S. have both re- 
solved to raise $60 each to support children and the L. A. S. have 
raised $500 for the new church building and will make it a 
thousand before they are through. 

March twenty-third — I have had the pleasure of welcoming 
Dill back home with a splendid record as head of his class in the 
Medical College of Nashville. I am still worried about the So. 
Presbyterian. I don't see how Dr. Bean is going to carry on its 
present load of debt but it must not be sold away from Clinton. 
I have just issued my book of travels from the press. 

March — My church numbers 300 members. 

March seventeenth — We have elected Spencer President of 
the College. He has accepted. We hope to get along as nicely as 
possible with the college next year. 

March tiventy-fifth — I have succeded in getting up Thorn- 
well's salary for his summer's work. All is subscribed and near- 
ly all is paid. At any rate it is so safe that there will be no trou- 
ble about it. My plan is the organization of a factory church. 
I would not think this best were it not for the location of my 
church building, so far from the factory. 

May — I have a very blustery sabbath today. Time is pas- 
sing. It will be a long time to look back to — but next Saturday 
opens thirty three years of my ministry in Clinton. I am glkd 
God has enabled me to do so much. I have proved my proposition, 
so long ago announced, that God can make a little village church 
a tower of strength and a light house to all that are around. 

May fifteeiMh — We will celebrate today the organization of a 
Sunday School at the Cotton mill. Thornwell will be its origi- 
nator so far as actual organization goes. The cotton mill is to 
be enlarged and the popuhilion of fully one hundred and fifty 
people will be there. The chapel will probably remain only a 
while under control of my session as the purpose is, if possible, 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 321 

to organize a church there but we could not get more than seven 
members at present. 

May twentieth — My darling wife died on the fifteenth of 
January 1879 and yet here, more than eighteen years later, my 
heart has been overflowing with bitter sorrow because of her 
loss — and an unutterable longing fills me to see her again. Lord, 
who teachest us of the things of eternity, thou hast promised 
reunion and sad and long as the waiting is, I will trust. 

May — Thornwell is getting along nicely with organizing 
the second Presbyterian church. 

July twelfth — All of June and July were just as busy months 
as possible. I had no time to write for I was making history. 
The public side of my life is given so fully to Our Monthly that I 
feel less necessity of journalism. I am sunk in the official. It 
is for the best but my secret thoughts and trials are my real life. 
But these are now more or less suppressed. The Church, the Or- 
phanage, the College and the Monthly occupy me. I find Clin- 
ton outgrowing me. I cannot keep up with its 2000 inhabitants. 
I cannot know them. All the churches are full and more or less 
growthy. The Cotton mill chapel is a fact and services held 
there every Sabbath. So that in three places and, in the winter, 
four, Presbyterian services are conducted every Sunday. I am 
to be at home all summer and very busy. Years are whitening 
my head and my beard is already white and yet I am only 55. 
God give me strength for my work. 

July twenty-seventh — I have mother and Charles and Bessie 
with me. States and Laura are with Flors^nce. We have a very 
small family at the Orphanage. I am exceedingly anxious to get 
a good financial report for October. I begin a protracted meet- 
ing tomorrow in my church. The church is cold and but little 
interest apparent. I work hard enough but I don't feel enough. 
The trouble I think is in myself. Lord send help and light. I 
am getting into routine that is about a rut, I think. I believe 
what I need most is better physical health. I am well, but very 
weak. And awful lazy. 

August tenth — Since this month began I have been conduct- 
ing from two to five services each day. Yesterday and Monday 
was spent at Rockbridge. I rode out on my wheel at ten after 
a morning in my office, preached twice, received two members. 
In the evening I preached again at the Cotton Mill chapel where 
Thornwell is conducting services. We had a real good 
time of it. We rode out in the moonlight on our wheels. 



322 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I am puzzled to know what arrangements to make for my of- 
fice next year. I have no foreman as yet. Dillard has made a 
splendid foreman. 

August fourteenth — States and Laura left yesterday. And 
the same day Ferd and States purchased the mortgage on the 
Southern Presbyterian. They have thus secured the paper to 
Clinton. Ferd will be editor-in-chief. ^They acted well about it. 

September — ThoVnwell is gone and Dillard. The Cotton 
Mill has fallen on Mr. B. C. Bell's shoulders. 

September ninth — I had today a visit from two Mormon 
elders, quite young elders, who were propagating their gospel in 
Clinton. The Lord dehver us. 

My son, Ferd gets the So. Presbyterian in January. States 
was the first Clintonian to get the degree of Ph. D. Dill will 
be the first to get the M. D. Thornwell the first to get the A. M. 
from Princeton; and I was the first to get a D. D* Pioneers. 

Oh, Lord, help me, keep me in the way of peace. Preserve 
me in the right way. See that no harm assails me. Help me to 
keep to the straight, plain path of duty. 

September tioelfth — I often think of my gray hairs and in- 
creasing years with regret. I have the physical vigor and vi- 
tality of a young man but the anxieties, the appearances and the 
expectations of an old one. I have need to draw in myself and to 
comport my actions and my efforts with my years. 

I ought not to work so hard for others. I get no gratitude 
for it. Other people live selfishly. I ought to live more for God 
and less either for myself or others. I don't mean that I should 
not work with all my heart for the church and orphans; but I 
ought not to be everybody's door-mat. Office work is consum- 
ing me. Lord, teach me how to serve thee better, according to 
the lives that please thee. 

October second — I had a very pleasant and agreeable meet- 
ing of the Presbytery at Union. My stay was with Clark Jen- 
nings. My boy, Sam Fulton, was in from Japan and became 
moderator. But, alas, for the "holiness craze". Still, only kind- 
ness ruled. I came back in four hours by way of Spartanburg 
and Augusta. The committee was appointed to organize the 
Cotton Mill chapel. Adams and two Jacobs. Very good. 

October eighteenth — Yesterday was certainly a busy Sun- 
day. I conducted the Sunday School of 2.'^0 and preached, then 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 323 

at three P.M. was out at the chapel at the Mill, spoke to the 
Sunday School and preached at my church at five o'clock and 
again at the Orphans' chapel at seven thirty. How little I 
thought when I reached this town of Clinton in April '64 that I 
would see the following Presbyterian work established as the 
result : 

First, The First church with 300 members. 

Second, Rockbridge church with 30. 

Third, Sloan's Chapel, colored with 50—60. 

Fourth, The Second Church, Clinton. 

Fifth, The Orphanage with its $100,000 of property, 160 
family, and its preaching and its students. 

Sixth, The Presbyterian College of S. C. with $20,000 pro- 
perty, 6 professors and 60 students. 

Seventh, The Mission Training College For Home and For- 
eign Missions. 

Eighth, The Southern Presbyterian. 

Ninth, Our Monthly. God be praised for all this. 

November — My trip to Synod filled me with a purpose to 
work for my church more, and to fight manfully to make it 
all it should be. But on my return, the pendulum has swung the 
other way and I am allowed to give my whole time to the Or- 
phanage. The cry of my soul is for guidance of God in the 
right way. God answered my prayers almost to the letter for 
the money needed for the past month. He gave me a little more 
than I asked. I go to Georgia Synod on Wednesday. 

November thirteenth — On Wednesday night I married Rev. 
George H. Cornelson to Miss Emma Bailey. It was a very hand- 
some affair. The church was beautifully decorated. I left the 
reception at Mr. Bailey's and took the train for Rome, Ga. 

I spent four hours in Atlanta, consulted a specialist who 
gave me no encouragement about my hearing. That fellow had 
sense. Others would have experimented with me, sized my pile, 
taken it, and made life miserable for me. 

November twenty-third — I am very anxious for the future. 
Whv can I not learn to trust and not be afraid? 



324 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

1898— Age 56 

I now hold 17 services of one kind or another every week — 
visit much, write a great deal, read also, and answer many 
letters. But the Lord set me to do this and I am thankful. 

Monday twentieth — An awful event has just occurred in 
our church in the sudden death under strange circumstances of 
one of my best friends and a dear young elder, Mr. R. H. Mc- 
Crary. He was found dead in his bed. He left insurance 
of $50,000, all but $10,000 of which will be required in the set- 
tlement of his estate. He anticipated that he would die suddenly. 

March tiventy- fifth — I have -just returned from Atlanta. 
Our first conference of Orphanage workers was a great suc- 
cess. I am honored with the presidency for the ensuing year. 
I stayed with Mrs. J. D. Turner. 

May eighth — We had our 34th S. S. anniversary yesterday. 
It was a success outwardly but it was not, in the highest and 
best sense. Its work was admirable but though we had not an- 
nounced the anniversary and in fact had kept it almost a secret, 
the town was full of people, baseball games on foot and there 
was plenty of liquor brought from Laurens, and even the police- 
man himself got drunk and had to be put in the guard house! 
I am determined to break up all this outside matter if I have to 
give up the occasion altogether. News of Dewey's great victory 
at Manila is still all the talk. The war has already made itself 
felt in Clinton. 

July— I also attended a reception of President McKinley's. 
He was sitting in his office when we went in. Rose and shook 
hands hurriedly and saw us out of the door as soon as possible. 
He forgot to lay his pen down when he rose to welcome us. 
One lady in our party went in, gorgeously arrayed. Evidently 
she went for the President to see her. 

September — Mr. Scott gave us a mule yesterday. 

October — In closing up my annual report I note the Lord 
has answered my earnest prayer that the receipts for support 
of our orphans should not fall behind last year. He sent me 
$70.00 more. In all I received $15,277, beside $3,000 for other 
work. So our receipts were about $18,000. This is nothing 
like as good as our annua mirabilis when the Lord gave me $25,- 
000 but I am sure that in course of time we will have a full 
share of his mercies. My youngest child is now a licensed preach- 
er. I thank God for my noble children. 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 325 

December thirtii-first — I do so much writing of one sort and 
another that I hardly ever reach this journal. I write so much of 
the current story of my life which is now almost absorbed in 
my public work that the private and personal gets but little show- 
ing. But it is well at the year's end to pause and take stock 
with myself. Three weeks of just enough grippe to keep me 
"at home" has prevented me from all but Orphanage work. I 
have simply done no visiting for six weeks and am about to begin 
the year 1899 utterly unfit for it. Perhaps it is this, the gloomy 
weather — the loss of friends by death and such like that keeps 
me from feeling the elation that I should have, for the year's 
beginning. The current of my home life is moving on placidly. 
Thornwell is at home. Florence and Ferd, God be praised, are 
settled near me. I had hoped to have kept Dill but higher hopes 
have hurled him to Nashville. Thornwell leaves soon for Prince- 
ton's last semester and then he will pass out of my life. At 
home I will have Mollie and Cleo only, and my own volume of 
happy family history will be closed. I began it on the 20th of 
April 1865. It ends thirty-three years thereafter — just the third 
of a century. Perhaps I have acted unwisely not to have found 
another partner but I asked the Lord's guidance and he gave it 
me. 

I am older. I am nearing the 57th mile-post but there is 
good work in me yet and I intend to put myself squarely to it 
for 99. My plans are about as follows: 

First. I will labor sedulously for the new church building. 
Second. I w^ill remodel the charter of the College. 

Third. I will paint and make comfortable my own house. 

Fourth. I will stay out of doors more. 

Fifth. I will visit more than I do now. 

Sixth. I intend making an appendix of the Orphanage on 
Enoree River. 

Seventh. I will try to add $1,000 more to endowment funds. 

Eighth. I shall petition God: 

1. — For a revival, 

2. — For a blessing on the college, 

3. — For the new church, 

4. — For greater strength to do His will, 



326 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

5. — For an endowment for the Orphanage, 

6. — For souls for my hive. 

So, Oh Lord accept this year and guide me. 

1899— Age 57 

January — I begin this new year with a heart full of plans 
and resolutions. The years are going by and I am growing older. 
The grey hairs are upon me here and there and full well I know 
it but those only drive me to greater endeavor, that I may redeem 
the time. I am fully purposed this year — first of all to be a better 
pastor and to work harder at my sermons. Next to work for the 
endowment of the Orphanage. Next to take more interest in the 
town of Clinton socially and sociologically, next to adorn Our 
Monthly with gems of beauty. Next to be a better President for 
the Orphanage and do my work for it in a more satisfactory 
manner. I have many little plans and schemes that I trust to en- 
volve from day to day but the special years work shall be **the new 
church building." Oh, Lord, help and guide me and do good things 
through me. 

February fourth — I pray God for $1,000 for the support for 
February. I also pray for some special gift that will make me feel 
that He is present with me and hears my prayers.* 

* (Telegram received at Clinton, S. C, Feb. 15, 1899) 
To: Wm. P. Jacobs 
Clinton, S. C. 
Will celebrate my husband's birthday by adding Virginia Home, named 
for my daughter. N. F. McCormick. 



Rev. William P. Jacobs Chicago, March 1, 1899. 

Dear Mr. Jacobs: 

What you say in regard to the superior usefulness of two smaller cot- 
tages rather than one larger one seems to me to have weight. I mentioned 
to you my wish to make two cottages — one for my elder daughter, Virginia, 
to be called the Virginia Home, and one for my youngest daughter, Mrs. 
Emmons Blaine, to be called the Anita Home; and I have decided, in view 
of what you say, to make my gift two houses, at a cost of $3,000 each, 
and $600 each for the furnishing of each of them. 

My son, Stanley, thinks that you ought to have variety in the archi- 
tectural design of your various houses, and he has therefore offered to 
contiibute the cost of new drawings for these houses. Will you please, 
therefore, send to him at 329 Wabash Avenue, a plan of what you de.^ire. 
You suggest using the plan of the Infirmary. If you will send the draw- 
ings to him, with any improvements you can suggest, he will thank you. 

Assuring you of my continued interest in your institution, which I 
sincerely feel is doing a great deal of good, I remain. 

Very sincerely yours, 

N. F. McCormick. 

P. S. I can send you the whole amount, if you wish, or I can send it in 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 327 

February sivth — A letter received today paves the way for 
a Six thousand dollar donation for the erection of cottages. Mrs. 
McCormick is to be the donor. This will add to the weight of re- 
sponsibility and leads mo to consider very, very seriously what 
my duties are with reference to the double work I hold of Pastor 
and President. The donation is the response to prayer for some 
new and helpful proof of the divine presence. The prayer was 
made on the fourth or rather recorded on that day. It was made 
on the first and on that day the answer was started. On the sixth 
I received it. God is doing wonderful things for me this year. 

February eighteenth — The death of professor S. T. Martin is 
a sore trial to us all. 

February twenty-third — The Orphanage has already grown 
beyond the plans of my earlier years. First I limited the children 
to 30 and then 50. Now I have fixed 200 as my limit. Still 
the Lord may have ordered otherwise and I obey. 

March third — I am trying to arrange for Thornwell to help 
in the Orphanage work. I need him especially in the teaching and 
management of the school. I want to indoctrinate him into the 
method of carrying on the work also. Today I am busy getting 
up plans for the work on the new buildings. My hope is to get 
Riverside, Anita, and Virginia all complete this summer. We 
will have $7,520 to spend. With that we will accomplish very 
good things. As to the College, I am grateful to say it is not in 
debt. There is a hope of making something out of it, only when 
the present faculty leaves. I want Thornwell to be the head of 
that institution and to control it. He has the right ideas about it. 
If I can secure him in the College and Ferd in the Presbyterian 
we will have a good time together. Ferd is doing well with the 
paper. 

April — George Cornelson preaches for me tomorrow. Thorn- 
well has accepted a call to Martinsville, Va. He will have a plea- 
sant field. All my boys are now at work. I am alone but God has 
blessed me in my children. 

May — We are undertaking now to paint and repair the old 
church building. The new will not be built in my time. The Cor- 
nerstone of the Virginia Home, just laid. The work is not at all 
getting on to my satisfaction. I am grateful for Thornwell's suc- 
cessful life. 

installments of $1000; and the first installment I am sending under an- 
other cover. 

(By pen.) By the doctors' advice I will probably leave for California Sat- 
urday. 



328 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

June — As to the new church building, I have about given up 
for the present. If we get it by the opening of the century I will 
be glad. I am trying to take good care of myself and hope to show 
the effect of a sound mind on a frail body. 

June eighth — Last month I asked the Lord for $1200.00. He 
gave me $1226. I have again to thank God for having in a very 
peculiar manner answered my prayers and each prayer so that it 
seemed to me the direct result was their answer. I had asked 
$888.00. He gave me reserving the answer to the last moment 
$913.00. The circumstances were such that this could not have 
been accidental. God's hand was in it and no other. I am satis- 
fied. 

July eighteenth — I went down on Friday to Shady Grove to 
lay in the grave my old friend Hughie Bonds. So are snapped 
the ties of early life. Gus Mason I dined with. My thoughts went 
away back yonder into the sixties when I used to preach at Shady. 
On Saturday I went over to Abbeville. There I met my dear girl 
Fannie Agnew Nance and spent the night with Courtney Wilson. 
I preached in both the Presbyterian and Methodist churches. To- 
day I rode up to Rocky Spring, dined with Robert Bell, preached 
funeral sermon of Jim Workman. Again old times swept over me, 
for my darling Mary first came into my life in Old Rocky, away 
back yonder in 64. And Oh, these 20 years since she left me. I 
am sore still for the loss of her. There has not been a day in 20 
years thaf I have not longed for her. Please God I shall see her 
and oh, how gloriously beautiful that sweet, tired face will look. 

July twenty-seventh — So Ingersol is dead! Well death is a 
great teacher! 

July — I am distressed that I have been able to do so little 
church work of late. I have no business being pastor. I love the 
work and the people but **my strength faileth." 

September twenty — The town of Clinton is being flooded 
with "holiness" doctrine by Rev. N. J. Holmes. This man was 
the first man I ever tried to lead to Christ and that I ever spoke 
to on the subject of religion. He was for years my warm per- 
sonal friend. His father founded my church, was nine years its 
pastor and led me to become its pastor, introduced me to the noble 
woman that became my wife. It is hard to think that his son is 
here, trying to undo all his father's work and to damage it sorely. 
He is having big crowds of white and black and many that ought 
to know better are trying to take it in. God pity the man and 
preserve the cause. 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 329 

October first — I had a glorious sabbath yesterday, 16 addi- 
tions. I had prayed the Lord for fifty this year. This makes just 
fifty, but I ask for more. 

October — I had two more additions to the church on Sunday. 

October twenty-first — I have had much to encourage me late- 
ly in my work and am very grateful. I do not think the Holmes 
meeting will hurt my church. It is true that I am necessarily com- 
pelled to preach "doctrines" harder than ever before but that is 
a very good thing, I think. 

November third — I made the quickest trip of my life yester- 
day — a regular flier. I left home via S. A. L. at 1 :30 A.M. took 
breakfast in Atlanta, was in attendance on Synod of Georgia, 
Marietta at 9:30 and spent the whole day there (delightfully) 
took train after tea for home and very well tired, slept in my 
own little bed at 2:38 A.M., 25 hours and 28 minutes. That 
beat the record for me. 415 miles to spend the day away from 
home. 

November eleventh — I am working away on the subscription 
list for the new church building. About $5100 in sight up to this 
date. There are over a hundred persons that up to this time, 
ought to subscribe who as yet have not done so. 

It has been decided that we will build the new church and 
the 28th May has been fixed as the day of the laying of the corn- 
erstone. We are getting on comfortably with the subscription. 
I am now quite hopeful. The Committee has not been fully or- 
ganized but will be shortly. I am encouraged to believe that the 
Lord will aid me in this work for his honor and glory and that 
as I lay down my pastoral charge I will leave my people in a 
handsome edifice of their own. 

Church life is vigorous now. God be praised. I thank him. 

December — I am working. And Praying. 

December twelfth — I asked the Lord at the opening of this 
year in mercy to grant me 50 souls in proof of his love to me and 
this dear church. I have thus far received 78 since January first. 
This is, therefore, by far the most fruitful year of my ministry. 
My heart is made glad. I am sure also that there will be others 
yet. He gave me also the desire of my heart in the buildings at 
the orphanage — the endowment increases and in other ways has 
shown his mercy toward me. I want to thank him for his good- 
ness and to pray that in Him I may find the blessing he gives to 
those who trust him. 



330 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

This has been a very successful year also in the college in 
the great increase of students. Also the Second Church is look- 
ing up. There was an addition of 9 to its membership last year 
with the promise of yet others. Ferd is also doing fairly well with 
his paper. Then our new church building is under way and we 
are sure to accomplish something before the year is out — or the 
Century at least. We will build of stone — that also is fully de- 
termined. I am so grateful and so thankful that God is still with 
us. He has assuredly enabled me to prove that a little village 
church may be made a lighthouse to all that are about, if the pas- 
tor is humble and true. 

1900— Ag€ 58 

Januo/t^y Thirtieth — Tomorrow, the last day of January, we 
will throw out the first spade full of dirt for our new church. God 
grant that there be no stopping till the work is done. I am ar- 
ranging to print 2500 copies of Our Monthly hereafter. What a 
magnificent improvement this is over the years gone. In 1872 
there were fewer whites in Clinton than there are now inmates 
in the Orphanage! Holland reports 68 additions to the Second 
Church in two months! God be praised that he ever had me to 
establish that church. 

March Sixth — God has wonderfully blessed our meeting. 
There were seventy-seven additions. Every child in the Thorn- 
well Orphanage at all able rationally to receive Christ has been 
converted. In my congregation there were not left a dozen out 
of the Redeemer's fold. The meeting has been a most wonderful 
evidence of the divine power. Dr. Guerrant has done a wonder- 
ful work. The success of the little Second Church under Brother 
Holland is even more remarkable. Since Dec. 1st, one hundred 
persons have joined the church. I do not understand his secret. 
The word has been marvelously blessed in the preaching this 
year. One hundred in the Second and one hundred and fifty in 
the First Church, a total of 250 will be reported to Presbytery. 



February 12, 1900 
Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

I send you $100 herewith to be used on my dear husband's birthday, 
February 15, for the advancement of the occupants of McCormick Cottage, 
the method or manner of the outlay to be determined by your own wise 
mind, only re(juesting that it bo something to help on Ihoir spiritual life. 
For when they go from the sheltering fold of dear Thornwell (3rphanage, 
and from under your own, your loving hand, how great the temptations 
that assail them. With many loving wishes 

I am ever yours faithfully 

Nettie F. McCormick. 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 331 

I have in my heart just now to push the building of the new 
church. I am going to propose Mr. M. S. Bailey as the Building 
Director and give him the plans with full power to complete the 
house. 

March Thirtieth — Notwithstanding the pleasant absence 
from home and neglect of work and notwithstanding the heavy 
increase that 1 had in our receipts for the past four months I find 
that already we are beyond $1000 for this month. I will hope for 
a little increase, the exact prayer I have offered was for $1000 
anyway and to $1200 if the Lord would give it. He has sent me 
$1050 for support, $62 for machinery, $50.00 for furniture, 
making a total of $1162 and one day yet to hear from. (Before 
Saturday ended, I had received the $1200.00.) 

April Eighteenth — I have to work fast if I keep up with the 
hurrying days. It is night now almost as soon as it is morning. 
My eye must go everywhere arid everywhere my busy hand. There 
is a great multitude of things to do and plan for. And over and 
over again everything seems to have reached its end in certain 
directions. Just at present, it is hard to predict the future of the 
'* Southern Presbyterian/' I fear Ferd will give it up. Perhaps 
it is best for him. He has been in the tread-mill for over two 
years now. But if he does Clinton, perhaps South Carolina, will 
lose the paper. I hope and pray that some way may be opened. 
As to the college while it is in better fix than Usual, the truth 
remains that the faculty needs to be very much remodelled. It 
seems to me that we are in danger here, till we find someone to 
lead this movement whose heart in fully set on glorifying God 
in the College to the end of doing for Him and not self. 

April Twenty-first — I am not to live always (God may spare 
me some years longer to enjoy the fruit of my labors) so I must 
be busy planning and working up methods for those who are to 
come hereafter. While grieving that my ten year's dream of a 
church building is not to materialize, I rejoice that there are bet- 
ter things than a church building and that I shall see the many 
mansions, someday. 

April Twenty-third — Yesterday was a gloriously beautiful 
spring day. The glory of the Lord was upon everything. I was 
pleased to see 308 in Sunday School, about 400 at the morning 
service and full afternoon and night congregations. God be 
praised for His mercies. 

Lord ever be mindful of us and help thy children. When I 
am gone, raise up one like-minded to do thy work that it may go 
on forever! 



332 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

May First — Last night ended the dream in my time of a new 
church building and with it the plan I have long worked for of a 
united church, laboring for town, Orphanage, College, and build- 
ing up one strong organization. It now appears that this is not 
to be and that the little jealousies that exist between the church 
and its institution will necessitate a church, separate from the 
village organizations. I have long been the one welding tool to 
hold these together. My plan for an enlarged church building on 
the present site was a part of this scheme. Lord, help me to do 
just exactly right. I see clearly that a strong party in the church 
with all respect to me will not follow my wishes in the matter, 
and this makes it my duty to step down and out. 

I am glad to report that Ferd has bought the Southern Pres- 
byterian, 

May Thirty-first — The eclipse on the 28th was a total and 
magnificent success. 

We have decided to call on the Congregation to settle the lo- 
cation of our new church building. Well, after a while the prayer 
will be answered. 

June — In opening this month I confess to great depression 
of spirits. Not only am I conscious of the inroads of disease 
making me old before my time and the checkmating of some of 
my plans, formed carefully and vainly pressed, but the disap- 
pointment that I feel in those I trusted and leaned upon are for- 
cible reminders of the absence of perfect happiness from this 
sublunary state. It is singularly forced in upon me that complete 
self sacrifice engenders a spirit of hardness that makes one care 
only for the object and nothing for personal peace. I have about 
reached the stage in which I am absorbed in my work caring only 
that the work succeed and not fretting whether I enjoy myself 
in aught save the work itself. 

I have been away in Nashville to see my poor old dying mo- 
ther, at least my mother for these forty-two years. She died 
on the 17th of June and is to be buried today in this town of 
Clinton. So ends a long, lovely, useful life, Dear old mother — 
how much you loved me. I was not your own child but you 
never seemed to know the difference. You are in the presence 
now of the King of glory and of all you love. We shall meet 
again, mother, in the best of all countries. Till then, farewell. 

The congregation, while deciding not to move the location 
of the church, decided not to move in building the church. After 
ten years of effort to secure this end, I find myself further off 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 333 

from it than ever, and the church in worse condition, than it ever 
was. I am now takinj? steps to sever my connection with the 
church. I am thoroughly convinced that they need a new pastor. 
They will no longer follow my lead and this step will be necessary. 

June tweiitij-fhird — Three days ago I asked the Lord to cheer 
me with some large gift for endowment and to put it then in some 
one's heart to give it. Today I received the gift from a new 
source of $500.00 for the endowment ! On the first day of June I 
asked for $900.00 this month for the support fund. I have al- 
ready received it! 

July Tenth — Last eve I spent with my three inch telescope, 
interviewing the moon, Jupiter and Saturn. Saturn is now very 
far away but her rings are a conspicuous object. The occupation 
of Saturn happened today but it occurs in the daylight and hence* 
we can make nothing of it. 

God has already given me all I asked for July and more. It 
is wonderful how this blessed Lord remembers. He keeps me un- 
der the shadow of his wing. My prayers are utterly worthless as 
literary productions. I just go to God and say "Lord, give me 
$1067.00 for this month.'* And he gives me $1167.00. That is 
all there is of it. I always fix my request for more than I need 
and I always have given me more than I ask. I rejoice in the 
Lord. I glory in his holy name. I received $10.04 today. I re- 
ceived $86.25 yesterday. So it comes in sums great and small. 

August Eighth — To quit or not to quit, that is the question. 

Lord Jesus, help me to decide this case. Dear Master I put 
it in strong hands. I want to do what thou hast set me to do. 
I want to spend and be spent in service. teach me the way and 
enable me to walk therein. I ask not my own way but thine. Lord, 
what wilt thou have me to do? 

October Twenty-second — My blessed Lord seems at length 
to be smiling. Yesterday was a splendid day. He helped me in 
the three sermons preached and in the conduct of the Sunday 
School. Every service had at least 300 present. Then the Con- 
gregation met and it was agi'eed unanimously to go ahead with 
the building of the church! The obstacles now seem all to be 
getting out of the way and the prospect is for brighter times 
ahead. I have a severe trial in Mr. Scott's purpose to leave us. 
He has served faithfully for 25 years in his way; unfortunately 
the service has been mixed with a foolish jealousy that led him 
to speak harsh things especially of me, and his words are so keen 
and sharp that it has been a great trial, but there could not have 



334 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

been found a man more prompt or ready to do as bid. I have 
grown attached to him with all his faults and will hate to see him 
leave. 

November — It really looks as if our officers proposed to build 
the new church. At any rate we have appointed a Committee to 
ask for bids for the erection of the walls and to put on the roof. 
And we have about $6000 as far as planned, but I do not think 
a contractor could do the thing for that money. Still we are 
moving. That is something to thank God for. Last month I 
asked the Lord for $1400.00. He gave me $1430. 

November Twentieth — A very hurried trip — shall I call it 
a wild goose chasf —down to Palatka to find that the Synod of 
Florida had postponed its meeting. I had travelled 1000 miles for 
nothing. So after three hours spent in the little city of Palatka 
I made my way back to Savannah and reached it a few minutes 
before midnight. I put up at the Pulaski house and slept till 8 
A. M. Then I enjoyed a delightful Sabbath. I heard, in the First 
Church, a sermon from Rev. C. M. Sheldon. He is the author of 
"In His Steps." I also heard him again in the Independent 
Church at night and I took tea with him at Bro. J. Y. Fair's at 
night. I spoke to the Sunday Schools of both these churches and 
also had a delightful visit and talk to the Female Orphan Asylum, 
founded by George Whitfield. Savannah is certainly a beautiful 
city, though what I saw of it, was confined principally to Bay, 
Bull and Broughton Sts., perhaps a day or two of rides over the 
city would be enjoyable in the days to come. I left Savannah at 
1 A.M., and reached home twelve hours later, being six hours 
in Columbia where I visited the Seminary. I was away from 
home exactly three days. This is certainly a quick trip and would 
have taken Ferdinand de Soto about a year. But times are now 
changed and we with them. 

December — The century is soon to end. It is possible that 
the Lord may let me live a quarter of the 20th century. If so I 
look for one end — to make my mark on that century in the little 
round of my Clinton life. I am now nearly through with my 



135 "Rush Street, Chicago 
December 20, 1900 
Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

I think of you so often durinp: the year that it is not difficult to think 
of you a jfreat deal at Christmas time. I want to send you herewith $00 
each, for Hedwifif, Anna and Carl,— $180. This belongs to 1901. I hope 
that each of them is doinp: well in the branches of study they have taken 
up. Do they jcrow in habits of careful study? I am j?lad when they do 
their domestic work well. I am prlad to hear through the '^Monthly'* that 
all is fiToing so well with all the dear children. 



AGE FIFTY-THREE— 1895 335 

59th year and will soon enter my 60th but if I live to see my 90th 
I propose to make even that year count in the kingdom of my 
God. I want to do something for my master as long as I have my 
being. This is the sum of my ambition. 

December — My people surprised me last night with the first 
social party they ever had at my house. I was so glad and grate- 
ful for this little kindness. I hope to take heart from it. Now 
I want the "new church" building contract given out. 



I often think of your two fine sons, each in a career of great useful- 
ness, taught by you in the great lesson of doing for others. I pray for 
all good to come to yourself as well as to your family these holiday times. 
You are doing incalcuJable good and I pray for blessings on you. 

Ever yours faithfully, 

Nettie F. McCormick. 

P. S. I fear if I wait to have the typewriter copy this, it may not gret off 
promptly, but it ought to be copied. 

Give my kindest and most cordial regards to your sons. 



CHAPTER NINETEEN 

1901— Age 59 

The new day. 

The new year. 

The new century. 

The first word I uttered in public service this year was Jesus. 
May that word be the guiding thought of this year for me. 

At midnight I prayed God for his presence and the gift of 
eternal life. At cockcrow and at day-break I prayed for the same. 

I am living in a new age. Since last night I seem to have 
closed up the lid of a mighty volume. I am saying farewell to the 
years gone. This is Year 1 of the Twentieth Century. 

February second — The Lord has been teaching me of late not 
to brag. What folly this is — "my faith/' "my prayers." Bosh! 
"Unless the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build 
it." I am here to do the Lord's work in every way, not in mine ; 
to do his work, not mine ; I am the clay. He is the potter. And 
He will do with me as seems good in His sight. 

February twelfth — The spring days are almost here. It is 
a reminder of how swiftly the years go by. If annihilation were 
surely at the end of all this, what an awful night-mare life would 
be. Its glory lies in the eternal hope. And the hope shall some 



135 Rush Street, Chicago 
February 5, 1901 
Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

I am thinking of placing in your Orphanage a little girl from Mis- 
sissippi, Virgina Hazeltine Harper, who has been under the care of Mrs. 
Carrier, wife of our Professor in Hebrew of McCormick Theo. Sem., of 
Chicago. She is twelve years of age, of perfect health and of unusual men- 
tal ability. Her mother, a widow, is at present traveling in Alabama for 
the "Christian Observer." The child has been for three months in Chi- 
cago under Mrs. Carrier's care. On placing her in the public schools much 
ahead of the work which she had already accomplished, in seven days she 
took the highest rank in the seventh grade room. She has an uncommon 
mental ability, writing both prose and poetry with great smoothness. Her 
character is one of unusual development, perfectly obedient, an absolutely 
good child, pure in heart and life, with strength to refuse to do ill. 

Please write me whether you can receive her, by my paying $60 per 
year. The matter of safe transportation is a subsequent question — an easy 
one — as to protection, etc. 

Sincerely yours, 

Nettie F. McCormick. 

336 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 337 

day be glad for creation. That is the lesson of the spring time. 

February twentieth — We gave Mr. Scott the contract for 
erecting the walls of the new church building yesterday. May 
God speed him. He is to get it done for $5,000 complete. 

March fifth — On this day, the first stones were laid in the 
foundation of the new church. I thank thee and bless thee, 0, 
God! How good, dear Master, thou hast been to me all the days 
that I have lived upon the earth. Now, for work. 

March fifteenth — Today — 59! I am in the last year of mid- 
life as men count it but really I am a boy yet. God of mercy make 
this my best year yet — a year of happiness, usefulness and un- 
selfishness. The big job of this year will be the erection of the 
new church building. My efforts and prayers for many long 
years have turned in this direction and now we are at work 
upon it. I rejoice and am happy in the thought of it and now 
until this new building is completed, it is clearly my duty to re- 
main in the pastorate. I am in love with church work and hap- 
pier in the discharge of my duties, than for a long while past. 

March twenty-ninth — On this day, Friday, March 29th, just 
37 years after I put my trunk off at the Clinton depot, we put 
in the first mortar into the building of the new church. 



135 Rush Street, Chicago 

March 2, 1901 
Dear Mr. Jacobs: 

Our little girl is setting out on Monday at twelve o'clock, under the 
care of the conductor of the Sleeping car, having a berth to herself as far 
as Atlanta, where our agent, Mr. Haynes. will meet her, will put her on 
the train, and she will arrive at your town Tuesday at 5:22 P. M. as per 
the enclosed schedule, where I hope you can meet her at the train. I 
trust she will arrive without accident, as I feel we have taken every pre- 
caution for her care. I believe she will not meet with any unpleasant thing 
on her journey. 

Perhaps you have already decided where you will have her domicile. 
I hope the mother will kindly see that Augusta's nieces, the Anderson child- 
ren, are friendly toward Virginia Harper, and will do a little to keep her 
from being lonely, although in English studies Virginia is more advanced 
than Hedwig or Anna. 

We all feel grateful to you for the interest you take in this little girl. 
She will be a most congenial member of your family; and I trust the teach- 
er will carefully consider her studies. 

We think of you very often, as the source of all the children's welfare 
and happiness, and blessing. You have the reward in your own lovely family 
of good and worthy sons. We remember them with interest and pleasure. 

Ever yours faithfully, 

Nettie F. McCormick, 

P. S.: I enclose check for $60 from March 1, 1901 to March 1, 1902. 



338 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

April tiventieth — On the 20th of Avril 1865, 37 years ago, 
Mary and I were married. Dear Lord how sore my heart has 
been— how often even now my eyes fill with tears when she rises 
before me. Oh, Mary, dearest, God is keeping thee, that we may 
abide together forever in the glorious years. 

I have just returned from Presbytery at Lockhart where I 
was delightfully entertained by Mr. J. C. Gary. I had the pleas- 
ure of introducing the names of four of my orphanage boys as 
i*andidates for the ministry. 

May second — Yesterday I took my first ride in an auto- 
mobile. 

May twenty-ninth — The cornerstone of our new church build- 
ing was laid with befitting ceremonies. We all enjoyed it greatly. 
I married Bernice Simpson and Harlee Branch just before going 
around to the exercises. 

June thirteenth — The years are going by and I am growing 
older. Often the longing comes into my heart to live Hfe over 
again. The days have swept by me till now even my children are 
bearded and their brows are furrowed. I am nearing my 60th 
birthday. For years the same catarrhal trouble that made me 
deaf in one ear, in my youth time has roared and raged inces- 
santly with its ringing bells and beating drums, through my head. 
Admonitions are plentiful that my youth is gone, my vigorous 
manhood well-spent and the day of the ascension not far away. 
But, oh how busy I am! Two hundred children call me father 
and look to me for guidance. I need strength from the, sources 
of all strength — and indeed he will not fail me. 

That is the reason I keep working and planning. God is 
with me and for His sake and because of His presence I shall 
work for Him till I die. I have a feverish desire to do much, very 
much. Humbly trusting Him I shall press on, and on, and on. 
My craving is for eternal life. I do not know how it is to come. 
I have no proof but the divine word and the divine presence 
that I shall live again. But I hang my life on that hook. It 
bears me up. It is strong. 

I am planning to get Thornwell as my assistant here. He 
must help me in both Ghurch and Orphanage work. I want 
eventually to have him bear the heaviest part of the work. If 
he comes he will have come as I did — for life. 

July — Poor and rich (in years and faith) Miss Ibby Fulton 
in her 94th year is passing away. She is the last of the original 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 339 

members of the Clinton Church to remain on the roll. And her 
name will soon pass away. 

Aifgust — The Mary Jacobs Memorial School! Well, thanks 
to Mrs. McCormick, it is to be built.* She sent me a check for 
one thousand dollars on condition I could raise the $500.00 I 
asked for beside. So we are going right ahead. On June 14th 
I prayed (see date) for $1000.00 from some source for this 
cause. On July 14th I received it. Well, God is good and this 
is a wonderful way that he has. Of course it was all an "ac- 
cident!" Bah! How can so many accidents happen? I have had 
thousands of these "accidents" in my experience. Somehow or 
other they make me very happy when I think about them and 
think of the Almighty love that grants our accidents. 

August — It fills me with a strange longing to know more of 
God and to see Him better. I see God now (1) In the tender 
love he implants in me for Him and for His word. (2) In the 
wonderful providences that have led me on. (3) In the glorious 
answers to prayer He has given me. (4) In the consciousness 
that "He is and that He is the rewarder of those who seek him. 
But all this only makes me long to have a clear vision of His own 
glorious self entering into every thought of my life. But — that 
is reserved for the other life and the time and regions beyond. 
I will wait patiently till then. 

August fifteenth — One of the misfortunes of my life is the 
tendency to low-spirits under every reverse and also when bodily 
affliction presses me sorely. I am nearing the end of my 60th 
year and will soon reach my 60th birthday. I have left youth 
far behind me. In sight is the weakness of advancing age. I 
want to try to remember that there is "no fool like an old fool" 

135 Rush street, Chicapro 
June 22, 1901 
*Dear Mr. Jacobs: 

Your letter made me quite sad, because you were sad when you wrote 
it. You need some additional room and you do not see your way clear to 
get it. 

Now I will help you a little in this. If you can get from any state in 
the Union, $500 — I will give you $1,000 for the object you have in mind — 
you stating more clearly what that need is. You are a person so great in 
the field of your choice; so fine in judgment and in organization, so large in 
heart, as well as in conception of plans for the orphans that you should 
have the fullest facilities to do with. I have often thought of you as unique 
and without a peer in the wise training of youth. 

These are busy days for you. Park College has its exercises this week, 
and other schools I know. There was a fine conference and school for Bible 
Study and meeting of all the teachers from the mountain coves and prima- 
ries, at Tusculum, Tenn. this last week or two. 

Ever yours, 

N. F. McCormick. 



340 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and so to deport myself that these ripening years may be my 
best. Among things to avoid must be the tendencies of age to 
moroseness, selfishness, cynical ideas and doubt of man which 
is of course the forerunner of doubt of God. I want to Hve on — 
but God grant that my next 20 years, if I live so long, may be 
full of rich joys of heaven. Dear Lord, I will need $2000.00 for 
this new building. Please help me to get it. Give me that extra 
$500.00 from some source or other. 

August twentieth — Mr. Scott has spent $5100.00 on the 
building. He took the contract for less than that sum. It will 
take $2000.00 more to build the walls. We have spent every 
dollar of the money received. We still have a liHl«^. subscribed. 
Up to date we have collected and paid out $5600.00. Well, I am 
weak enough and tired enough to believe that the Lord will help 
us out, someway. Otherwise we have to stop work. 

September — On Saturday last I sent in my request for a re- 
lease from the pastorate or a co-pastor. If the latter is agreed 
to it must be Thornwell. 

September seventeenth — Thornwell is here and I think it is 
now settled that he will come about the first of January and make 
arrangements to work with me in the Orphanage and Church 
work. I am glad the matter is settled. The Lord bless the **lad" 
and grant to him grace and enable him to be a mighty helper to 
me in all my work here. My health, for two months past, has been 
much impaired. I have a suspicion that the Lord did this on pur- 
pose to force me to come to a decision about Thornwell. I have 
at last heartily agreed to the plans proposed. His work will be 
arduous enough. There will be more than enough for him to do. 
I thank God and take courage. 

Sejitember twenty-first — The Board fixed the matter yes- 
terday. It is not my doings. It is of the Lord. Had I had my 
choice I would have perhaps withdrawn from church work but 
the Lord has declared that Thornwell must be my successor. So 
may it please Him ever to order my ways and at last to open the 
eternal doors, that I may behold His face. 

September twenty-fifth — More to distress me. Mr. 

has ordered all work on church building stopped. The hands are 
scattered. There is no more chance for us this year, but to see 
rotting scaffokls, wasting sandpiles, walls decaying and ruin to 
the enterprise. "Jacobs' folly" rises up in big letters before me. 
I am sick and tired. I am going to take the thing to the Lord and 
leave it there. 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 341 

October first — Twenty-six years ago this day by God's grace, 
I opened the Orphanage with eight little children, my dear wife 
as matron, in an unfinished house. I was sick that day. Today 
also. For I was compelled to forego my trip to Presbytery. 

Last night we completed the election of Thornwell as Vice- 
President and we began work again on the church but Lord, for 
how long? Oh, grant to the finish. 

October twelfth — We are very far behind in the receipts for 
the orphanage and it troubles me some because I am too ner- 
vous to do the kind of work I ought to do. I feel that my trou- 
ble is with me to stay — and that my health will probably require 
me to stay out of harness for some time to come. The church 
has given Thornwell an invitation to act as my assistant. He 
has accepted and will be here before very long. 

November thirtieth — It was my prayer that our Lord would 
during November give me if he saw fit, at least as much this 
November as I received last November, but better still, if He 
would give me as much this month as He did last month. Last 
night I received to the dollar as much as I received last November 
— $1572.00 and by this A.M.'s mail when I close my book, within 
seventy-five cents of the splendid receipts of last month, namely 
$1769, a marvelous "coincidence" surely. The wonderful thing 
is how it is the regular ''coincidence" for my blessed Master to 
give me each month the sum I ask for. I should ask for a $4500 

On a ranch, Cimarron, New Mexico 

December 18, 1901 
Dear Mr. Jacobs: 

I am thinking so much about you this month and fearing you have not 
fully recovered — can we ever fully recover lost ground? This is a deep 
question, and I cannot answer it. I can only just go on. 

I think with grreat regard of your great self sacrifice — your unwearied 
labors for those orphans, sent you by their kind heavenly Father — kind in 
providing for them such a loving earthly father as you are. It always 
seems to me that I have never met your equal in combining great qualities 
of soul with great executive abilities. Your spiritual nature and your high 
mental endowment keep pace with each other — a rare possession seldom 
seen in one person. I read that tragedy is love's self sacrifice. Your history 
illustrates that fact. For these orphan's sake you should cast on others the 
physical care of the great plant, you have reared. There are deeper cares 
that others cannot shoulder. 

I send you herewith a Christmas token $250 not knowing whether any 
want remains not supplied in the Mary Jacobs Building, but wishing it ap- 
plied there if any such need remains. Then I would like the Anderson 
orphans to have $5 each, but I don't know whether they should themselves 
have it to spend, or whether their teacher should help them judge how to 
lay it out. Let the lady judge who comes nearest to them in care of them. 

Augusta Nelson is in Sweden with her father. 

Wishing you Merry Christmas, dear Dr. Jacobs. 

Ever yours, 

Nettie F. McCormick. 



342 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



sum for December. It is a big amount but he can give it and make 
me glad. He can give me even more than that. 

1902— Age 60 

Has come. God has it in His hand for me for good or ill. I 
trust him wholly, fully. Oh, that some day I might see his face. 
He is to me the ideal of all that is glorious, wonderful, intelligent 
and loving! I long for a higher, deeper, wider knowledge of 
Him. 

January first — Today is hallowed to me by the dedication of 
the Mary Jacobs Academy. Twenty-three years ago this month 
that loving one — my best — entered the kingdom. I am here still. 
God may or may not grant me length of days, however it be, it 
is well. At their end I and my darling shall meet again. 

Clinton is to be on a boom this year, two cotton mills, two 
churches and plenty of other things building. And this is the 
little town I came to 37 years ago. 

January twenty-first — Notwithstanding the fact that from 
July 18th to January 1st I did no pastoral visiting, I find to my 
surprise that my salary is paid in full for the first time (On 
January 1st) perhaps for twenty years. Well, it encourages me. 
My church is always faithful and financially speaking, I am 
"passing rich" on one hundred fifty pounds a year. 

Though an invalid to all intents and purposes, I confess to 
being a right hard worker. One of my good matrons says that 
she cannot conceive of me in any other position than that of lec- 
turing or writing. The home folks say I am always reading. 
Well, God has been very good to me. He keeps me busy and 
happy. Work has become a second nature and I love it. 

Janvxiry thii^tieth — I never lie down to rest now but that two 
thoughts come to me with great power. On is the shortening 
years that I must spend on earth. The other is an intense longing 
while I am here to break through that wall that stands betwixt 
this world and the next. There surely is an indubitable way, 
somewhere, some means by which the soul and its creator may 
deal with each other. If the ether bears a wireless message across 
the ocean so that the two who converse, though invisible, are yet 
really in touch, there should be, there must be an equally palpable 
though as yet undiscovered avenue of approach to God. Perhaps 
at present a charged wire would not be more deadly to the body 
than would a breaking away of the midwall of partition to the 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 343 

soul. But that such a way will yet be safely opened to the chil- 
dren of men I doubt not. Till that way is made manifest what 
folly to seek, as some do, to communicate with departed spirits. 
We surely could find out God before we find these frail things 
called men. Oh! to know God! to know God! 

February third — One of the things that torments me is the 
multitude of daily accidents that cost money. I have today paid 
out $20.40 for a damaged pump. It is my bane, this breakage and 
loss under the hands of 280 people. 

I have been thinking much today of the darling wife taken 
from me twenty-three long years ago! Surely in that time I 
ought to have forgotten. Yet day and night she is present with 
me. I have tried time and again to fill her place in my heart! 
It has been in vain. I could not love! She always comes in be- 
tween. The only love I have ever had that was a true love was of 
one because — she was so like Mary ! It was because I saw Mary's 
ways in her that I loved her. I have a warm heart. It burns with 
a steady flame and it warms up toward many but when I think 
of my poor, sweet darling, gone away from me — my tears flow 
like water as they are doing even now— and my soul cries after 
her. Surely God will give us to be together in that better land. 
It has been my light and my happiness for all these years gone 
by. I have learned to love life — to be strong and fearless and to 
walk in the path I have had spread out before me. But the crav- 
ing for her I loved above every other is an insatiable one. I want 
to see Jesus first, then Mary, and mother, and father. 

It looks today as if God was going to give me the money I 
asked for on the first. He always does. It is very, very wonder- 
ful. 

February eighteenth — We are at a dead stand-still about our 
new church building. The question is now, are we broke? Or 
shall we move on? What must we do? It is with our blessed 
Master to touch the hearts of these people. Lord, help me. In 
two years time I will have completed my fortieth year in the 
pastorate of the Clinton Church. It will be a good time to stop. 
But that also is in thy hands, O Lord. I am physically strong 
yet and well able to do much of the work outside of the pastoral 
visiting. I get so lazy in the afternoons. But the time has 
come when I must work or quit. 

February twenty-eighth — The winter months end today 
with a bright April day. A thunder storm last night. We have 
had the first steady, cold winter we have had in this climate in 



344 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

a generation. The ground was frozen every morning for 90 days 
(about). We have a big controversy on hand with Davidson Col- 
lege. The^ wonderful thing has come to pass, that God is making 
the little town of Clinton the Presbyterian center ! May He have 
all the praise. 

The Lord answered a prayer for me yesterday that I had 
forgotten that I offered it. Three weeks ago I asked that before 
February ended he would make the cash in hand $1000 as we 
needed that to pay for the land we are about to buy. Yesterday 
He sent me the little balance of sixty-five dollars needed to fill 
out the amount. How good God is! 

March fourth — I am approaching my 60th birthday. It 
shocks me to think I am moving so rapidly on the limit. I 
propose, unless I have an entire break-down in health, that I will 
work till the end comes. I want to be able to celebrate the 50th 
anniversary of the Orphanage in 1925. 

March eighth — I am sore beset today with the thought of the 
loneliness of life for a man as old as I am. Once I knew what it 
was to be truly, tenderly devotedly loved. The darling wife still 
is with me in my hours of memory — but the impossible gulf of 
death lies between us. I feel it more and more and with an un- 
utterable longing I cHng to her. Her sweet and dutiful life made 
14 happy years but since these 23 years have passed without her, 
I certainly have a desolate home in one sense. The old man will 
cling to the idol of his youth. I have plenty who love me — but it 
is the love that puts some other object first. The soul will long 
for the first place. 

March tenth — Clinton organizes a second cotton mill to- 
morrow. 

March fifteenth — I ought not to let my 60th birthday pass 
without a note in this journal. How do I feel about it — 

"Louden thy cry to God, to men, 

And so fulfill thy trust. 
Soon thou must lie, mouth stopped, sans breath, 

And silent in the dust." 

My plans are as tho I were to live a hundred years. My prepa- 
rations are as though I had reached the last year of my life. The 
spirit of immortal youth is as strong in me as ever. It seems im- 
possible that I should die. I look with amazement at myself in the 
glass and I wonder if it be truly this image of an old fellow that I 
see there! Sometimes I think that this sentiment is born of the 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 846 

cherished conviction that I shall never die but that even now — 
I am living in eternity — the God of life in me. So my 60th birth- 
day shall be as was my 50th, my 40th, my 30th — a looking steadily 
forward. I have no time to look back. There is work, a great 
amount of it, right ahead. 

March twenty -eighth — On my return from Greenwood yes- 
terday I found a letter announcing that Mrs. Lees had left the 
Orphanage a legacy of $10,000. This is great, good news and 
fills us all with grateful thanks. It is true that it may be several 
years before the money is received but eventually it will come and 
a mighty blessing may it be to us all. 

I have had a delightful trip to the Connie Maxwell — took 
dinner with Jameson. Spoke an hour to his orphans, visited four 
or five of his cottages. I spent the night at Mrs. David Aiken's, 
and also made a speech for the Sunday School children at the 
Convention, a rather poor one. 

March tiventy-ninth — I have just heard that Miss Speed of 
Silver Lane, Conn, has left all her property to her aged sister and 
after her death $2000.00 and share in the balance of estate which 
may be $1,000.00 more, comes to the Orphanage. How very, very 
good the Almighty Father has been to us this month. 

A week ago, it seemed impossible for my prayer for aid to 
be answered. I felt in my heart that for His own reasons the 
Almighty Father would not give me what I needed. But — see 
what God hath wrought. He has given me the money I asked for 
and many other things beside. These two legacies also come to 
fill my heart with joy. 

I am getting to realize richly and joyously that God is very 
near to me. I have had trials of the flesh. I have been "under* 

♦Rev. W. P. Jacobs 135 Rush Street, Cricago 

Clinton, S. C. March 27. 1902 

Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

Mrs. McCormick is confined to her room today, and, not feeling: well 
enough to write herself, has handed me the enclosed check for One Hundred 
dollars with instructions that it be forwarded to you at once for a trip for 
yourself. Mrs. McCormick feels that you have been carrying: a very heavy 
burden for a long: time and that in justice, both to you and the work itself, 
you should get away for a time where you can have a complete change and 
rest and wishes you to use this check for that purpose. 

It is most gratifying to Mrs. McCormick to receive such a good report 
in every way of all three of the children : Anna, Hedvig and Carl. 

Very truly yours, 

T. B. Gordon, Secretary. 

P. S. Your letter will please Miss Augusta Nelson, the children's aunt, 
and we will send it on to her. 



346 



DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 



the weather" since last July but I am not afraid. God hears my 
prayers. I am not asking for long hfe. He knows I want it for 
His sake and for the furtherance of the good things for which he 
has bidden me work. But that is for him to decide. No part of 
my unconditioned prayer is a plea for length of days. I leave that 
with sincerest joy in His hands. I am sure He will give it me if 
it is for the best. 

April — My cry, this month is for $1100.00 and I am going 
to hope and trust that my dear Lord will give it me. Of course 
he will give me that money. 

April Fourteenth — So Wade Hampton is dead. This country 
will hold him in everlasting remembrance. 

April Seventeenth — Dillard is here, helping us all to bright 
days, while his short vacation lasts. God bless him. 

April Twenty-sixth — The good master has again answered 
my prayer. On the first day of the month, I asked for $1100.00 
which was more than last year. I have received $1117 and still 
have two more days. 

The prayers that God answers for me are innumerable. I 
am asking him for large sums of money as he thinks best. I am 
asking him to take care of us, of what we already have. I am 
asking for health, sufficient for my daily work. I am asking for 
help in my new church building. I am asking him for souls. I 
am asking him that I may not think of self nor care for self. I 
am asking him to guide me always — show me what to do. — how 
to do it. I am asking him to keep these children from sin, from 



Dear Dr. Jacobs 



135 Rush Street, Chicago 
March 29, 1902 



This little enclosure is a poor tribute to render you on your birthday, 
but the love and respect that goes with it is worth something. 

This letter I could wish might have gone to you on the real festal day, 
but I have not been well, and am not strong now — or able to write much — 
but I must send my grateful regard for your kindness to me and mine all 
these years, in an unchallenging faithfulness to a friendship- — formed so long 
ago. My daughters, all of them, have learned to honor your name. They 
are all strong, sweet women, and useful in their places. 

Can you not use this enclosure to go away entirely from the Orphanage 
for a time? You should. I think you can never get stronger there. That 
I believe. Do go away somewhere. The piney air of Camden, S. C, I sup- 
pose would not be change enough. Where would you like to go? If you 
would like to go on the sea I will gladly add to the enclosed sum, to enable 
you to do that. Do consult your tastes in this matter. It is time I put my 
pen away. 

Ever your friend faithful, 

Nettie F. McCormick. 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 347 

physical and moral danj^er, from dishonor. I am asking him to 
give me a calm and patient exterior — and the same within. Of 
the moneys I ask for I am asking for thousands for the endow- 
ment, for thousands for the support, for such buildings as I need. 
I am asking him for happiness here in serving him, for long life 
if he wills it and for eternal life beginning now. I could not count 
up the prayers — nor yet the answers. I think God answers all 
my prayers. I do not recall any just now that in some way he 
hasn't answered. The answers come with the regularity of the 
sunrising. It is a great joy to pray to God. 

May Third — The Lord gave me all— more than all I asked 
for last month. In addition came the news of those two fine leg- 
acies. I had just asked him to give me $1200.00 this month; a 
sum I must have and which I humbly pray that he would grant 
though it be much beyond the amount received last year, when a 
letter was received from Mr. Phlegar telling me of the amazing 
prospect of a gift for our endowment of Twenty-five thousand 
dollars! I am just struck dumb with surprise and cannot credit 
the thing. Well, if these things are all realized, it means about 
$40,000 added to our endowment fund, this year! But I will not 
let my heart bank too strongly on all this because it seems too 
good to be true. 

May Twelfth — The railways have offered a free trip to Char- 
leston to our little people ! 

May Twenty-third — Thornwell writes me from Jackson that 
I have been elected by our Assembly to represent them in the Pan- 
Presbyterian Alliance. I think it very probable that I will accept 
and go. It will give me an opportunity to renew my acquaintance 
in London and Liverpool. I will have Thornwell here at that 
time. He can attend to orphanage matters and carry on my work 
while I am away. 

June — Then came that splendid excursion with 160 children 
to Charleston. I could not say too much of that and hence I have 
written it up fully in the current issue of Our Monthly. It was a 
princely affair and I am just as proud of Charleston as I can be. 
Mary Feebeck and Julia Wittman stayed with me at Smythe's. 
How I did enjoy it. 

We are just through with the college commencement. We 
had a splendid meeting of the Board. The only unwise thing 
done showed the lack of faith of the Presbyterian members. I 
felt sorry for them. They don't know what a great and grand 
and wise God ours is. 



348 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

June seventeenth — That marvelous gift of $25,000 has mater- 
ialized and will be soon here. I am fully of thanksgiving. The 
unknown friend has added to his kindness by investing the 
amount (at a cost of $174.31 additional) and has already sent 
bonds to Judge Phlegar. I am sure God's goodness will make us 
all grateful for all days to come. Judge Phlegar writes that he 
is on the track of a $1000.00 gift which will be ours soon. We 
have received since October first, already, $4200 plus $25,000 
equalHng $29,200. We also have Mrs. Lee's legacy of $10,000 to 
count in, and which will assuredly come to us in due course of 
time. God is dealing very richly with us and makes glad the 
heart. 

July — The dear Lord heard all my prayers for last month. 
I must needs ask him for $1200.00 for the hot July. I cannot 
do with less. But the report of our big donation will reduce 
sympathy. It is a question whether humanly speaking, we shall 
get what we need. But there is no relief for it. We must ask 
for this whole sum. He who sent us $25,000 last month can 
surely send us one thousand this month. 

July fifth — What a grand report our endowment will make 
this year — $30,000 ! As much as we have received in all the thirty 
years before. That $25,000 came on the anniversary of my pur- 
pose to found the Orphanage just thirty years ago. 

July fourteenth — I went out with a party of children to the 
river a week ago. We stayed till Saturday when we were sum- 
moned home by the death of my little grandchild, William Jacobs 
Bailey. Poor Florence, her heart is broken. She doted on the 
child. We buried the little fellow yesterday. Oh, God, comfort 
the mother. As for the rest of us, we know that it will be hard 
to bear but heaven isn't such a bad place for a babe, after all. 

July nineteenth — God is dealing very kindly and gracious- 
ly with me, having given me $1470 up to this date. It is pro- 
bable that I will reach $1600 this month which shows that our 
Lord can help in the summer time as well as in the winter. 

July thirty-first — I made an urgent prayer for help, a veri- 
table cry — on July first. We had gotten way behind. I felt that 
we must have $1200 even to get through. God gave us more 
than that from donations only, while we also received our $400.00 
from endowment income. The total was $1674.00. It was simply 
wonderful. We never had a July like that before. 

August second — My prayer is for $1000.00 during this month 
of August. 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 349 

AnguM twenty-third — Up to date I received $850.00 for the 
support. I am still $150.00 behind the sum I asked of the Mas- 
ter. It looks to the eye of sense that we will fail this time. 

AucfuM thirtieth — Thorn well comes today to share my bur- 
dens with me. He will have his hands full for I intend giving 
him much to do and will use him on all occasions. 

August thirty-first — The Blessed Lord God has heard my 
prayers and has given me $1030 for this month of August. I 
am glad and gratefully thank him for his goodness to me. I 
am going to ask him for $800 anyway for September. 

September thirtieth — The Lord did better than I asked and 
not quite as well as I wanted. I received $918.00. We have had 
a glorious year: $18,696 for the support, 

30,176 for endowment, 
1,781 for building, 



$50,653 Glorious! 
and besides a $10,000 legacy (not yet received). Including that 
He has given me $1,000 for every year and fraction that I have 
lived to date! 

October — I ask for $1770 this month.* 

October— TYie month has ended. I asked for $1770. I re- 
ceived $1880! I thank thee, father. 

November — My prayer is for $1800.00 this month. I ask 
for it because I feel sure I must have it. 

November seventh — Only $385 received to this date; but 
the dear Lord can answer this prayer yet. 

Paul Smiths, N. Y. 

October 2, 1902 
*Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

Could it be that my thoupfht went out to meet your letter last uijarht. 
while your thoujjht was coming by this morning's mail, for I thought of the 
orphans when I could not sleep, in the night, and wondered how the school 
year was opening with you. I was thinking in the night that I would ask 
you what was the most pressing need with you in the care of the orphans. I 
have $1000.00 I thought I would like to do good with, and I was wondering 
what use Dr. Jacobs would put it to. In your letter today, you say you 
must do something. What is that something? It is, indeed, a problem. 
You see. Dr. Jacobs, you are now renowned, both as a great educator, and 
also as an able organizer of orphanage homes. People feel that you weave 
more of home, and less of the institution into your Orphanage than any 
other man, perhaps in the country. I am so glad your son is with you. 
Remember us to him. 

Your friend. 

N. F. McCormick. 



350 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

November tenth — My ante-breakfast reading today; (usual 
allowance) : three pages Greek Testament; one page Hebrew 
Bible; five pp. Cicero (Cn. Pomp, oratio) five pp. Spanish read- 
er. Yesterday 300 at S.S., — a fine morning and afternoon con- 
gregations. Thornwell preaches every night now and has a 
service at Second church in the afternoon. 

November thirtieth — I received the $1800.00 for which I 
made request and $67.00 over. God is good. 

The wonderful way in which God has cared for this Orph- 
anage in the steady monthly answers to my prayers is something 
wonderful. It leads me to lean on him more and more as my 
years go by with the feeling that my work is of less value and 
that God is relieving my increasing years with tokens of his 
marvelous goodness. My days are drawing nearer to the setting 
sun, but I am earnestly desirous of making my last days my 
best days. I have sad realisation of the decline of human love 
for the aging. But I thank God for increasing evidence of his 
goodness. Oh to see him in his glory! 

December thirteenth — Heavenly Father, grant me thy bless- 
ing. Help me to complete the church building, to endow the 
Orphanage, to strengthen and endow the college. Give me com- 
fort physically and spiritually. How I long for the felt presence 
of the living God in all my work! 

December thirty-first — It was with great hesitation that I 
wrote down my prayer on the twelfth of this month for $4,000. 
The Lord gave me a hundred dollars more than that. 

1903— Age 61 

January twelfth— We had poor weather for service yester- 
day A.M. Thornwell's service was full at four P.M. and so was 
mine at night; at the chapel. We are pulling ourselves together 
for a good year's work. We have got the Second church service 
started and are now working for a chapel at the Lydia Mills. 
Our own church building, however, is in the way of everything. 
On Friday the last slates were put in place and the building is 
safe, Thank God! 

January — My church did a grand Job in raising and paying 
$1200.00 cash for the new roof for the church. 

February twenty-first — Once in a while I have to go down 
to the "City of the Sea" and enjoy a renewal of my early years 
there. I have just returned from such a little three nights and 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 351 

two days of old Charleston. The weather was sharp and windy 
but the Argyle is a grand hotel, everything is new and I enjoyed 
its cuisine. I spent a morning in the Memminger School with 
Prof. Gates. Yet another three hours at the Orphans' House. 
I entered the old college Library for the first time in forty 
years and found the same old musty books. Two thirds of them 
needed rebinding. I wandered through the subterranean dens of 
the college where once I kept grim company with books. I found 
my way into Flynn church and sat where I first sat fifty years 
ago as a little Sunday School scholar. The old Cemetery was 
open and I visited Sam's grave and my second mother's. Twice 
I visited the Battery and faced the cutting winter winds of old 
ocean. I trod many famous streets and squares and even took 
a wonderful trip to the moon on one of Edison's latest in- 
ventions. Twice I called on Dr. Sprunt and dined with him. 
The new was mingled with the old for I met a half dozen of our 
Orphanage boys, now grown to be men. And returned to find 
John Simpson ready for his burial. 

March Fifth — A word wtih thee, dear old Journal, as I sit 
here in the "Tech" in my office — locked in I am. I have been look- 
ing back over all the 61 years the Lord has had me in hand and 
especially as I remember the days when I was buoyant with 
youth, eager for life's battles and planning great things. And 
now in this very month, I am to have my 61st birthday. I can- 
not realise that I am growing old. But I can truly say I have 
fought a good fight. I have missed my darling wife of the long 
ago more than my pen can write. Not a day passes that I have 
not thought of my darling. I have a mighty longing for her, 
that I fondly hope will be realized when the golden gates swing 
open. In sweet memory of her and in joy for the past I am 
going on with this fight clear down to the end. I find my time 
occupied well and pleasantly. It is true that I am not success- 
ful in church work as formerly. I am not the pastor that I 
used to be. I can preach well, but my deafness and other ail- 
ments are a sad hindrance. I have been over and over again 
pondering the duty of giving my beloved church into other hands. 
I am pleading with God to be allowed to fill out my fortv years 
of service in it. I wanted so to make it fifty. But I have so 
little encouragement of souls saved, so few come to the prayer 
meetings. There's so little love for me personally on the part 
of the church — this latter due doubtless to my exclusive devotion 
to Orphanage work — that it seems almost my duty, however pain- 
ful it may be, to let the church select a postor that would bless 
them with a higher ideal of what a church ought to be. It will 
be a fearful sacrifice to make, but it is surely- coming. God 



352 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

will take care of me and will lighten the blow. There is plenty 
of work for me to do yet but it must be work that I can do bet- 
ter than that of the Commanding officer. But whatever He 
decides it will be right and good and best for me and His church ! 
God be praised that I have faith to believe this and to say in 
heartfelt earnestness, Lead Thou me on. 

March twelfth — The college work js, I think, in an encour- 
aging position, notwithstanding all that has been said and done 
about it to the contrary. We have a good faculty, a first class 
set of students. But better still, there is some financial encour- 
agement before us. We are about to get into such shape before 
the Synod that we can claim to be a Synodical institution and 
moreover we are about to get hold of $1500.00 for a professor's 
residence, which I feel sure will shortly be built. 

March sixteenth — I reached the golden age of 61 yesterday. 
Shall I ask the Lord for thirty more years of service? I feel 
today as if I were equal to it. But is it not better to say "Thy 
will be done"? My present hope is, God willing, to celebrate not 
only my 40th but my 50th anniversary of the pastorate of the 
Presbyterian Church of Clinton. 

April fourth — I asked the Lord for $1100.00 last month, I 
received it. Some of it came after I had got tired waiting for it 
and had closed up my books for the month. I had forgotten this 
sentence "Wait on the Lord." 

April fifth — I am full of happiness in the thought that God 
is the sustainer of this work. I trust in Him absolutely without 
fear and almost without anxiety. 

On the morning of the 19th I earnestly prayed God to send 
me through Mrs. McCormick $500 more for the Gorton Cottage. 
At the same hour she mailed a check to me for $500 for that pur- 
pose. I had not written to her for a month. 

April tiventy-fifth — The Orphanage grounds are beautiful 
in their green foliage costumes. It is to me a place as near heaven 
as I ever get — these woodland paths, God-given cottages and 
merry hearted children There are angels here but I have not 
seen them. 

Maij first — Today I had the front steps of the church set 
up at my own expense. I thank God for the privilege. 

May ninth — Today is our 39th Sunday School Anniversary. 
Thornwell conducts. He was not an entity till the 14th anniver- 
sary. Gov. Heyward is our chief spokesman today. 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 353 

I am 61 but I do not feel any weaker than I did 20 years 
ago. I am far from being as enthusiastic — excitable — romantic 
— but I have attained to stability, persistence, calmness and still 
have plenty of courage. I am sure God has plenty of work yet 
for me to do. 

Los Angeles. 

Well, I'm here — at Los Angeles. I have crossed the conti- 
nent. 

My soul is crushed within me. I had a restless, feverish 
night with an ulcerated throat but rose determined to take pains 
to have a good day. I reached Emanuel Church at ten and put 
myself at the tail end of more than a hundred people eager for 
the mail. My turn brought one letter. It was frcm Thornwell 
and it brought the awful tidings of the fearful death of Anna 
Anderson, sweet, gentle, loving Anna. My heart is well nigh 
broken. It has ruined my trip, has sickened me and I turn my 
feet home tonight. I can neither think nor care for anything 
As I had nearly a whole day of agony before me after receiv- 
ing my berth in the sleeper I boarded the train for Santa Monica 
by the ocean. But I could not think nor see. I thought a vision 
of the great Pacific might give me easier thoughts but there was 
only one cry in my soul — Oh my God ! What have I done that 
this should have come upon me? I wrote to Mrs. McCormick. 
Also recalled my purpose to see Miss McCormick. It is now 6 
o'clock. I have forgotten so much as to take bread. Well, it 
matters not. I want nothing. Poor sweet Anna, would God 
I could die for thee, my child. 

I have been sick at heart, sick and sore of body since yester- 
day. Even the children grow quiet and wonder why that old 
man has tears running down his cheeks. Had I known what 
was happening at home one week ago this day, when I was so 
gay in Memphis, I would have turned back upon my tracks. 

June first — I reached home on Saturday night. I was too 
overcome by sorrow to take up my work on the Sabbath. This 

135 Rush Street, Chicajro 
June 2, 1903 
Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

You have been much in my thougrhts all these sad days, and I have 
feared that the terrible tragedy at the Orphanage might weigh too heavily 
upon your already tired and weary heart. I wrote immediately a letter, 
addressing it simply to the Orphanage, expressing our thanks and -apprecia- 
tion of the tenderness and loving kindness shown on all sides toward our 
dear girl who is no more! Everyone has been so kind. As I knew you were 
away, I did not address this letter to you. 

I hoped this would shorten your journey, and when I received your 
letter from Los Angeles, I replied by telegrapli immediately, addressing you 



354 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

morning I began my duties again. I wrote for many hours to- 
day. And the dear Lord gave my $1000.00 as I asked him — and 
more! Blessed be his holy name. A mercy even in dear Anna's 
death! She died instantly. Oh! I thank God for that. My 
prayer for June for the support — $1200.00. 

June twelfth — I cannot express myself as highly gratified by 
the meeting of the Board of Trustees. of the College. We v^^ere 
not improved by the addition of a few wild "youth" to the body. 
There is something intolerable to the average young Presby- 
terian divine in a meeting that has no "burning question" in it. 
As such questions are usually from the author of evil they are 
blocks in the way of progress. The only part of the proceedings 
to which I look back with real pleasure was the conferring of a 
degree of D.D. on Sam Fulton. So the Orphanage is honored 
in its boys. 

June seventeenth — My people have done nobly. The $2000.00 
debt has been raised and money paid. God bless these dear people. 

June twenty-second — Thank God, the note for $2000.00 is 
cancelled and I burned it up in front of the pulpit yesterday. 

June twenty-third — The Lord has answered my prayer for 
June already. 

July sixteenth — This Riverside is a great old place. I en- 
joy the absolute rest it gives. The River is always fresh and 
ready. It is in good shape for bathing — I enjoy it. The boys go 

care of the General Assembly, and I also sent a telegram to our commission- 
er, asking him to hunt you up, and beg you not to return home. I regret that 
I could not do more. The telegram to you was returned to me undelivered, 
and I asked that it might be sent by post to Clinton. 

I am deply sorry that you should have returned. It is as you said; 
you could help nothing by leturning. It is a deep sorrow that one in the 
morning of life, should be thus cut off, and we all feel it deeply, but there 
is not blame to be attached to anyone, and I wish you could know how 
truly we feel this to be so. We must receive it as one of those inexplicable 
providences! Because several were within the area of danger, and yet not 
one was harmed, except Anna. This it is that makes us feel awed and sub- 
missive. It moves us deeply that you have loved and sorrowed for Anna, 
but we deplore the heirt-broken manner in which you received the news 
of this distressing event. We felt deeply the fact as you do, that Anna 
will not again walk in these pleasant paths with us. 

If you are at home, I should think in order to rest your mind and heart 
you had better go to the Summer Conference at Northfield, where there is 
so much of joy and real happiness. What do you think about this last 
propo.sition? 

Miss Nelson is feeling deeply the loss of her niece, as is Emil also, feel- 
ing the loss of his sister. (By pen) — I am going to write thanking Thorn- 
well for his very comforting letter. 

Ever yours sincerely, 

N. F. McCormick. 



AGE FIFTY-NINE— 1901 355 

fishing. We all go boating this eve. It will be a heavy pull up 
stream. Our days pass as quickly as possible. 

September third — My prayer this month is for $1000.00 for 
the support fund. 

September twenty-third — My heavenly father has answered 
my prayer for $1000.00 this month and more to follow — for there 
is yet a week before the end and I have already received the thou- 
sand (I received $1200.00.) 

October — I wonder if it would be possible for the dear Lord 
to give me $1800.00 this month. 

October thirty- first — I want to thank God for his goodness 
in showing me that it is possible to give me $1800.00. I asked for 
and received $98.00 besides, and that, over and above all receipts 
from endowment, this year set apart to a different purpose. 

November first — Master, I do so want $1900.00 this month. 
That will be far beyond the receipts of November of last year. 
For at least $400.00 of this month's receipts must go to the Build- 
ing fund. All in fact that came from the Endowment Fund. 

God is good to us all and he never fails to do the right thing 
at the right time. 

November twenty-ninth — Well, the dear Lord is giving me 
the $1900.00, I so longed for but had no hope of getting. He 
also answered marvelously a little prayer for a check for a cer- 
tain purpose from a certain individual and the check came (100) 
with a special delivery stamp on it to make sure that I would get 
it. The prayer was offered and the letter written simultaneously. 
We are at work — hard at work on the new church building. 

November thirtieth — I close up this wonderful month with 
$2162.00 in donations for the Orphanage. Thank God. I love 
the Lord because he hath heard my prayer. 

Chicagro 
November 24, 1903 
Rev. Wm. P. Jacobs 
Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

I want the boys in McCormick Hall to have some needed industrial or 
scientific equipment, and I send this little Thanksgiving token. Is a piano 
beneficial to them? 

My little grandson Gordon's address is 321 Huron Street, Chicago. I 
should be grateful if you have the time and strength for a very brief note 
to him. 

I think of you here through many days and nights of care, and occupa- 
tion, and always lovingly, and with great interest in your work. 

Ever yours faithfullv, 

N. F. McCormick. 



356 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

December — Thornwell is getting on nicely with the Georgia 
Home. We hope to have a good house started by April or May 
next. 

December fifteenth — We are enjoying a good visit from 
Dillard. 

I used to be worried because I was growing older. I have 
nothing to do with that. I am now worrying to make good speed 
with the work I have to do. What becomes of it after I leave the 
earth is not my concern. I ask God to attend to that. The great- 
est mistake I can make would be to feel that this is my work and 
is eternally to be considered as mine. I must leave it some day. 
I will leave it in the hands of Almighty God. In fact I will not 
even plan for the future. I am planning for the present and the 
work I have to do. 

December thirty-first — Well, anyway, I thank God with all 
my heart. I received only $4000.00 for the support fund; $626 
for endowment. The Lord sent me according as he saw I needed 
and I give him grateful thanks. But this means for me no vaca- 
tion in February. I have failed to get my full hoped for amount 
but He has given me more up to date than last season by $300.00. 

A HUNDRED YEARS HENCE 

We print today a very gratifying letter from the Rev. William F. 
Jacobs, D.D., President of the Thornwell Orphanage at Clinton, S. C, con- 
gratulating the News and Courier upon having completed its first century. 

READ THE NEWS AND COURIER 53 YEARS 

Thornwell Orphanage 
Clinton, S. C. 
December 28th 

To the Editor of the News and Courier: I feel impelled this morning 
to write you a note of rejoicing on the approaching completion of your 
100th year. What a grand paper the News and Courier is and what a 
grand place it has filled in the history of our noble old State! I began 
reading it as an eight-year-old child, away back in 1850. Ten years later 
I began writing for it and to it sent the first communication that I ever 
penned for the papers. I have been reading it ever since, as man and 
boy, for these 5.3 years past. That which first led me to reiad it was, 
singularly enough, the account of the funeral obsequies of John C. Cal- 
houn, quorum minima pars fui — that is, I was one of the little rabble 
that followed the procession along the sidewalk. I remember 36 years 
later, the absolute delight with which I laid hold of a copy of your paper 
in Milan, Italy. It was home, youth, love, joy, everything combined. No 
man knows what a copy of the paper means to a Charleston boy 5,000 
miles from home, till he has tried it. Well, God speed you! May you live 
a millennium. 

Yours faithfully, 
W. P. Jacobs 



CHAPTER TWENTY 

1904— Age 61 

January twelfth — It is a glorious idea — immortality I God 
grant that mire mav begin with a vision of the face of my adored 
Savior. I am thanking God every day for his mercies toward me. 
They are great ! 

January sijcteenth — Just 25 years ago, this day, my darling 
wife was taken from me. She reminded me of it this early morn- 
ing in a dream. I have never forgotten her. I never will, nor 
can I. I hope to spend an eternity, enjoying her love and pres- 
ence. Heaven has more of love in it than earth, sweeter, purer, 
holier, happier love than we ever dreamed of here. I believe in 
God. That is mv argument against all sceptical theories of non- 
immortality. God is. God loves. Therefore. I will live and love 
forevermore. 

February 7ihith — Terrors fill land and sea. The awful fire 
at Baltimore, sweeping away 200 millions of property is a dan- 
ger to us all and seems to threaten distress to all the south. 
Then the War Between Japan and Russia is a menace to cotton 
mills as well as a threat to Christian progress. In the orphan- 
age we have our trials, also. They are always here. Poor chil- 
dren, how my heart bleeds for them. I grieve for their sins and 
am anxious about their support. What could we do were it not 
for the infinite Father? Lord, keep me from making mistakes. 
Help me to do the right always and save me from doing harm 
while trying to do good. It is a mighty arm on which I lean. 

February fourteenth — I have decided to do the preaching 
work at the Clinton Cotton Mills myself. That settles the matter 
of an evangelist in Clinton. It does look like a shame that with 
five Presbyterian preachers in Clinton, we can do nothing for 
these mill folk. Lord, here am I, send me! 

February seventeenth — I spend three hours daily in my 
study, reading. Yesterday' I was busy with Abbott's Austria, 
Darwin's Descent of Man, Cicero de Officiis and some German 
extracts. 

February t went y-n nth — The only two members of the sec- 
ond church took letters of dismission. There are about two doz- 
en non-resident members but I don't know where they are. I 
am puzzled over the proposition of what to do now. The church 
ought never to have been organized and though we could prob- 

357 



358 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ably collect a dozen members together in a week, it is the prob- 
lem to be solved "Is this the best thing to be done? I doubt it. 

March — We are very much behind last year in our receipts. 
Up to date we are nearly $700.00 less in hand than in 1903. 
Indeed, unless the Lord comes to our rescue we will soon be in 
a bad way. I pray this month for $1200.00 as the least we can 
ask for. And God is good and I trust him to give it. 

I have just been Hsting my church members. I find I have: 
Church Resident 206 

Orphanage Resident 100 (only pupils) 
Church non Resident 17 
Orphanage 42 (non Resident) 



365 
One for every day in the year. 

March fifteenth — How fast these birthdays come around. 
Sixty second. Well, Fm not ashamed of them. My personal 
ambitions do not lie along the line of beauty, youth and joyous- 
ness. I love my God. I love my fellows. I love my work. What 
more could I ask? So let the years jog on. I fill them with 
prayers, with plans and with work. My happiness has been in 
seeing the work prosper. My pleasure is in loving intercourse 
with my people — in reading — in doing new things and in re- 
calling the jobs I have planned for this sixty-third year of 
my life, the further development of all the work, the Lord has 
given me. It would be unwise of me to venture into new ex- 
periments. As the new church building is to be occupied I will 
have to remodel many things connected with it. The Sunday 
School will be changed into a Bible college. Its very name will 
be dropped save in Presbyterian reports. I propose changing 
its character and lining up with the idea — "the church at work 
and at study." The division between church and school I wish 
to obliterate. 

My only trips this year will be short ones — to Nashville, 
to Charleston, to St. Louis, and to Presbyteries. I will try to 
celebrate well my 40th anniversary. I am determined to enjoy 
Riverside to the full for my health's sake. Thornwell must 
raise the money for the Georgia Home. He and I together for 
the new water works and machinery. Well, dear Lord, thou 
has been with me a long time. I have never trusted thee in 
vain. Thou art mine still. I am thine, still. That is happiness 
and reward enough. My ambition now is some day to see Jesus. 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 359 

How I have gloried in him! I long for a touch of his hand and 
a word from his lips. 

March twentieth — I love to preach as much as I ever did — 
the true object of preaching being the saving of men's souls 
and their spiritual elevation, I believe I realize far more than I 
ever did. I trust that the good Lord will ever keep this zeal 
in me. The only thing I dread is the decay of my preaching 
powers. To prevent this, I am taking more thought and to 
write more sermons than for years past. I am also throwing 
myself into my pastoral work, more vigorously. For years I 
have allowed the Orphanage to absorb my best endeavors, but 
at present and God grant it may ever be so, henceforth, I am 
devoting my heart's most earnest struggle to the preservation 
of the church and the spread of gospel truth. And I hear many 
kind things said of my preaching. I was a little concerned about 
my sermon yesterday for fear that it would be wholly unin- 
teresting to the great number of children present but Elliott 
tells me that at table today she remarked "Father preached a 
splendid sermon today." When Iktle ten year old grandson 
William answered "He surely did, mother!" We never can tell 
just where our arrows will reach. 

March twenty-second — It is a regular daily business with 
me to spend two hours at the new church building, worrying 
over details and correcting anything that may go amiss. The 
Deacon's Court decided last night to borrow additional monies 
and to complete the building at once and get it ready for the 
Synod meeting. I had hoped to complete the building without 
more borrowing but I do not see how we can do otherwise. The 
church up to date has raised about $13,000 in cash and other 
donations and that I am glad to say is a great big thing for 
this little flock to do. We have also borrowed $1,000 and I think 
will need to borrow $2000.00 more. This debt will bind me to 
the pastorate until it is paid. Well, I'm glad for I dearly love 
this people and I am going to work among them so heartily 
that I will get them back to loving me. 

March twenty-fifth — Yesterday at the unearthly hour of 
two o'clock I was startled by my alarm clock into semi conscious- 
ness, literally rolled out of bed, in some way managed to bedeck 
myself with needed ornaments, groped through the dark to the 
S. A. L. depot, there found Thornwell waiting, and off we put 
to Greenwood. We had the electric lights there to guide us over 
to the P.R. and WC. R.R. — stretched off on a bench and bumped 
leisurely down to McCormick where we were turned loose in a 



360 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

gentle drizzle-drazzle. After a ''sumptuous" breakfast at a little 
hotel with a fancy name we paid special attention to our Orph- 
anage possessions, deciding to sell one lot, to erect four cabins 
for rent to negroes, and to offer certain other lots for sale. We 
now have $4000.00 worth of property there. 

March twenty-ninth — I did not hope for it, although I did 
ask for it, that this month's receipts for the Orphanage should 
exceed those of last March. I am grateful to say that my prayer 
has been answered. I am now conducting the last protracted 
meeting we will ever have in the old church building. 

As I turn back to read the first sentence written for this 
month, and then write down on this last day God's good gift of 
$1244.68 for the month, a reverence for the dear Father comes 
into my heart ; He is the hearer of prayer. I glorify his name 
and rejoice that for many hundreds of times he has done this 
very wonderful thing for me. I am praying and working with 
all my heart. God has given me great things to do and to be 
glad for — even if I am 62 years of age. I have lived longer than 
I used to think possible and all my days have been days in which 
to praise and glorify God. 

April — I am in need of not a cent less than $1600.00 for 
the month of April. My prayer is for $1200.00 at the lowest 
and may our dear Lord give anything above that that his treas- 
ury will afford. 

\ April fourth — The meeting closed with the communion yes- 

4 terday. Between three and four hundred communed. The house 
was full to overflowing. During the meeting I received four- 
teen into the church. How good God is and how ready to help 
those that trust him. The church roll calls for 408 members 
but about 60 of these are absentees. The communion service 
was probably the last that we will hold in the old church build- 
ing. 

April eleventh — Up to date we have spent $14,025 on our 
new church building and have raised by subscription $14,250.00. 
We will need for carpet $400.00; for pews $825.00; for chairs 
$125.00; for art glass windows $750.00; for finishing the build- 
ing $1,000.00. This latter we will borrow. The others we will 
try to pay during the ensuing year. This $3100.00 will com- 
plete everything and will make the church cost us, including 
furnaces to be bought in the fall $18,000.00. 

April tirclfth — This four months of grippe is an admo- 
nition. While 1 love to preach and love my church as well as 1 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 361 

ever did since I first began, I begin to see how essential it must 
soon be to the progress of the cause that a better man than I 
should lead the host? of Zion here. It will be a desperate trial 
for me to give up work as pastor, but I must begin resolutely 
to face that idea. Very, very often during the years gone, I 
have studied my duty as to changing my field of labor — but 
now t^e Question will be as to the surrender of all pastoral work 
outside of the Orphanage. I complete my 40th year of pastoral 
work next month. Forty years was the limit I had set to my- 
self. Now that I have reached it, the question comes up. Is 
not fifty a rounder period than forty? In the meantime the 
dear Lord is keeping me in the pastorate. As God wills, I am 
his "een down to old age" and he is mine forever and ever. 

April nhieteenth — I have been thinking hard about the 
ways of the home life today. The need of some changes in our 
Clinton work is very evident. I fear Thornwell will have to 
take charge of the college or it will go under. It is true the 
Lord may have some better thing in store that I know not of, 
but judging by present outlook, Thornwell can make the College 
into a great success. 

April twentij'third — My prayer for $1200 is answered. But 
I asked the Lord to give me more and he is doing it. 

We are promised stormy times at the approaching meeting 
of the Board of Trustees of the College. All the Presbyterians 
have appointed trustees but several, by whom instigated I know 
not, have conditioned their future interest in us on the removal 
from our charter of the clause fixing Clinton as the location. I 
will try my best to save the interest of the Presbyterians and 
to prevent any alteration of the charter. I will agree to the 
change, provided the Presbyterian representation is reduced to 
one each or I will agree to put on record all contributions that 
are "movable" apart from those that are fixed — say, by having 
funds intended to be used at the option of Presbytery, held and 
dispersed by the Treasurer of Presbytery. But I will under no 
circumstances agree to plant this tree in a box on wheels. Clin- 
ton's it is and in Clinton it must remain. 

The trouble at present is complicated with the resignation 
of our Chancellor, President and two professors. All for lack 
of funds. No salary. Verily we are quarreling over a weak- 
ling. Perhaps, however, out of our dire troubles there will come 
better times for the college. Lord, take this matter in thy hand. 
Open a way that I know not. Give good heart to us all and a 
brighter outlook and good success. Help, Lord. 



362 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Well, the blessed Master has done all I asked him to — He 
has given me up to this Wednesday night 27th April, $1660.00. 
I told him that I needed $1600.00. I prayed him to give me 
everything above that that his treasury would afford! Well, 
he is doing it. In addition, from endowment interest, I have set 
apart $145.00 to pay the Gorton Cottage debt. 

I am not wholly satisfied with the outlook in either church, 
orphanage or college at present. Perhaps least of all am I sta- 
isfied with my advancing years. Nevertheless I have learned 
in these 62 years past that disorders of every kind coming into 
the life of a child of God are his best friends. They give him 
incentive to duty. They help him to do wiser and better work. 
They are his schoolmasters to lead him to Christ. How gladly 
and truly I can say, "It is well." Let me thank God for my chil- 
dren, — now all happily married and well situated. All busy for 
the Master. Not perhaps in just the way I would have chosen, 
but still the Lord has chosen for them. 

May fourth — I have consented to nominate Thornwell for 
the Presidency of the college. I am very dubious as to this, 
whether this is best for him, or for the college. It is doubtful 
whether he can make the college a success, it is being hammered 
at so by other parties. It is doubtful whether he will give his 
whole heart to it, enough to make it so. My own earnest wish 
is that Thornwell might be able to find just the thing he ought 
to do and then to do it. I have always felt that his taking the 
position he has had in the Orphanage is premature. My own 
relationship to the institution may continue a long while, yet. I 
am 62 to be sure, but I began my ministry early, at 22, and I 
ought to be good for ten or fifteen years longer of hard work. 
I may be able to make my work a 60 year period. In that case 
Thornwell's position must be a very unpleasant one. And he 
would degenerate into a follower instead of a leader. Still, I 

135 Rush street, Chicago 

April 27, 1904 
Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

There is a wish on Emil's part to have Hedvip and Carl come to 
Chicaero. and all live topfethcr in a little fl\t. Emil bcin^" tho breadwinner, 
Hedvig keeping house, and Carl going to High School. What is your 
thoughtful opinion of this, Dr. Jacobs? This is by no means a settled plan, 
but simply the desire of Emil. 

(This is by pen.) 

For myself I fear a cessation of mental growth, if this plan is carried 
out. 

I will be glad to know you are better. 

Ever yours, 
N. F. McCormick. 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 363 

have put the matter into the Lord's hands. If this presidency 
suits him, the Lord will guide him into it. If it is the wrong 
thing, may God keep him out of it. 

May seventh — We have had a great anniversary. The for- 
tieth. With all that the youth were too busy to decorate the 
church, a few loving hands made it beautiful. The day, dawn- 
ing in a drapery of clouds, turned to sunshine in midday. At 
ten A. M. the long procession 250 perhaps, had travelled from 
the Seminary to the church. Forty prizes were given. Burwell 
made a good speech. There were songs by Orphanage and church 
chorus, by orphanage and church children. There were speech- 
es by college boys. At eleven thirty a special excursion of over 
500 Columbia and Newberry people came in. The Columbians 
camped on the Orphanage grounds. The Newberrians proceeded 
to the college campus. The Orphanage was at its best. The 
baseball was a (none of my business. Guests came to and fro — 
scores — hundreds — thousands. There was an impromptu **Mu- 
sicale" in the T. 0. Seminary. And late at night I wrote my 
Sunday morning's sermon. 

May tenth — I did some good preaching Sunday, in my own 
estimation. All three services I got through with satisfaction. 
It is well to have a good opinion of yourself. I didn't hear any- 
body speak enthusiastically about the services — or otherwise. 
But being somewhat deaf, it may have escaped me. 

May seventeenth — I had hoped to get into the building on 
the 29th of May — my 40th anniversary — but it is not probable 
that we will get in before the Sunday following. And another, 
our commencement speaker, will preach the first sermon in the 
new building. I am satisfied with anything the Lord chooses 
for me in the matter. In comparing my present sermon efforts, 
for I still write a new one every week, I notice a falling off in 
vocal power and in oratorical presentation. I am less imagina- 
tive in expression, less forceful in delivery and less full in mat- 
ter. My sermons seem to attract more through higher qualities 
of spiritual fervor than formerly and indeed I am willing to have 
it so. I have felt strongly the fact that my church needs a de- 
velopment that I am not giving it. We ought to reach more 
outsiders. I am not the success that I used to be. I hold my 
resignation ready, now, to be handed in, just whenever it strikes 
me that it ought to be accepted. I am doing good work yet — 
only it is not good enough. 

My plans, in regard to the college, are now matured. When 
the overtures come up from our dissatisfied Presbyterians and 



364 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

it appears that an effort to maintain the charter as it is now, 
will not give satisfaction, I am going to introduce a resolution 
providing against all change except by unanimous consent of 
the eight contracting bodies. This failing, I shall then endeavor 
to secure the transfer of the college to a body of 15 directors 
to be appointed by Synod, eight of them to be residents of the 
town of Clinton. I am determined not to surrender local man- 
agement. I would rather have a small college in Clinton than 
a university elsewhere, not that I object to having a university, 
if other parties will found it. It is Clinton that I am seeking 
to benefit and not Columbia. Is the motive wrong? No. It 
is the only possible motive to a true patriot. 

May twenty -seventh — I do not now have much time for 
journalism, although I still enjoy it and especially I love to look 
back over the way I have come. Now that I am 62 years old 
I do not have the zeal, nor yet the impatience of former days. 
I do not plan as much. I feel that time is a more slippery com- 
modity. A year now is not much longer than a month used to 
be. 

Grand Avenue church where I attended the General Assemb- 
ly in 1887, just after my return from Europe. I remember that 
"organic" union was the big subject then. We were not ready 
then. But I trust that the very near future will see the gather- 
ing into one of the Presbyterian clans. There is now only as 
far as I can see, the negro question, in the way. And God is 
removing that. 

I was also very much interested in the moving photographs. 
Really we have now the preservation of voice features and even 
the very actions, passing before us, of dead men. Ours is an 
age of wonders. M'ay it not be that the millenial age will yet 
be able to unlatch the doors of the spiritual world, and converse 
with the invisible spirits may cease to be a mysterious longing 
and become a reality. Now we see through a glass dimly but 
then face to face. 

Yesterday I preached my 40th anniversary sermon ! I laid 
in the hands of my dear people my resignation to be held till 
such time as they get ready to accept it. Forty years is a long 
time to be pastor of one church. 

Yesterday Hon. B. R. Tillman spoke to us at the C. C. com- 
mencement. His address was very galling in some respects for 
he poured "the oil of praise" on my devoted head. I will orga- 
nize the Clinton College Association next week and that will end 
this stage of the drama. 



I 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 365 

Ju7ie twelfth — Dear Lord, in tender pity direct thy ser- 
vant. Help me to do right — to think right — to be right. And 
me, my father. Give me wisdom. I need it sorely. I am beset 
on every side. My longing is to glorify thee, and not myself. 
Lord, leave me not but keep my hand in thine. 

June fourteenth — Yesterday was a very unsuccessfsl day. 
I got through an immensity of business. We reorganized last 
night, the Clinton College Association and have arranged to 
"save the things that remain" after the expulsion for it amount- 
ed to that pure and simple, of the local membership of the Board. 
The C. C. A. nows holds the 20 acres of College property. 

June twentieth — I am sure that Thornwell has made a mis- 
take by coming to help me so early in his career. He ought not 
to give up preaching for he is called thereto — and he is too good 
a preacher to be ruined through inaction. My people are opposed 
to going into the new church before the first sabbath of July. 
Then they want me to preach the first sermon in it. I am wil- 
ling. But it a poor ambition to gratify. 

Ju7ie twenty-second — We had our first prayer meeting in 
the new chudch this day. There were just 12 present. We met 
in the Ladies Class room. I read the 84th psalm. Harper Boyd, 
G. C. Young and Y. R. Scruggs assisted with the prayers. We 
have our new carpet down, ready for the pews and the sashes are 
all in. On first July we hope to have the first communion and 
July second the first baptisms. 

July third — I preached this day my first sermon in the 
church — preached three fourths of an hour on "Thou shalt call 
his walls Salvation and his gates Praise. Is. 60:18. I received two 
new communicants and conducted communion. The church was 
"level full". Everything moved off fairly well. We had chairs. 
Next week it is hoped that the pews will arrive. Well, I thank 
God for such good success. We are in the new church at last 
and it is going to be a success. The acoustics are fine, better 
than in the old building. I am grateful for that. 

July twenty-fourth — I have been getting on wonderfully 
with the receipts and up to date have received $1600.00. This 
w^as what I asked for of the blessed Master, this month. I feel 
sure that He will make it $1700.00. 

I have received the $1700.00 that I asked of the Lord. I do 
believe He will make it $1800.00. My heart rejoices in God. 

July thirty- first — I wrote a sermon, conducted Sunday 



366 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

School, preached to about 275 and held a Deacon's Court Meet- 
ing, married a couple and am now getting ready a sermon for 
this afternoon at the 2nd church. Oh, how I love to work. I 
am like a "horse, smelling the battle from afar" as the hour 
draws nigh for me to stand before the people. 

August eleventh — Riverside on the Enoree. We had a de- 
lightful row yesterday afternoon down to the bridge, then a 
walk over to ''Horseshoe Falls" and a row back in the sunset 
hours. The river was full and we had a good team of boys to 
pull us. This place of ours on the river is certainly a very fine 
one and we are enjoying it greatly. The hills, ravines and 
streamlets, the valleys and waterfalls, the wild woods and va- 
ried vegetation, are all matters of ever-changing interest. I 
am glad I bought it. 

August fourteenth — I have received $630 of the $1000.00, 
I asked of the Lord ! I also ''found" $200.00 in bills in the pages 
of an old pamphlet that someody sent me! It will go to water 
works. I have now about $700.00 in hand for the well etc. I 
have big things before me for this winter. Since the Demo- 
crats have nominated Henry Gassaway Davis for Vice-Presi- 
dent (age 82) I am taking courage. I am in the fight yet. 

August tiventy-first — Oh God, give me grace and strength 
for the work thou hast put into my hands. Help me to preach! 
Thou hast given me great duties, help me to be faithful. Keep 
me from growing old in Thy service. I want to be a man of 
might with natural force unabated, till my work is ended. 

I received the One thousand dollars I asked the Lord for ! 

My old time Methodist Evangelist, Leitch, is carrying on 
a meeting here. He is very long winded but quite interesting. 
I have heard several of his sermons. I trust that he will do us 
all good. 

September fifteenth — When I am well and willing I feel the 
usual insatiable desire to preach, to visit the flock, to order 
church work and to do all that needs to be done at the Orphan- 
age as well. When I feel the "wings of time" rudely fanning my 
cheeks, I think to myself "it is time to lay some of my burdens 
down." But which? The man that has his hands on the reins 
is never willing to surrender to others. Several things, how- 
ever, have of late happened in the church that lead me to rea- 
lize that I am regarded with less devotion than formerly. I 
am sure that there are several things that are causing this: 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 367 

first, my long continuance here. The present Clinton Church 
found me in charge. They have no feeling of responsibility for 
me. Second — my age. I am a good preacher and men hear me 
but I have not the play of imagination nor the wild elo(iuence 
of former days. Third, people have got used to me. They want 
something fresh and new. I cannot stir them to endeavor. 
They think "Oh, it is only the Doctor. It does not matter." 
Fourth, my increasing deafness keeps me on one side. They 
whisper to keep me from hearing. It also affects my voice. 
Fifth, my "authority" is against the tenderness of family inter- 
course. "It is no longer Jim and Dick and Tom." Sixth, my 
lack of home facilities — neither wife nor child makes it home, 
no gathering place for my flock. Alas, my sorrow! Seventh, 
over half of my time is taken up with the Orphanage. Now 
these all are obstacles that I cannot remove. They are physical 
and not moral difficulties. And the result is the lack of growth 
and progress in the church. I often say I ought to withdraw. 
But then I do not want to do so. I have the feeling that here 
I will have but a few more years at most to work. Our new 
church building has temporarily relieved the difficulty. But the 
relief is only temporary. 

September twenty-fifth — I will have to get $225.00 before 
next Friday, to secure my $1200.00 for this month. I have re- 
ceived above $19,000 in donations, exclusive of endowment. I 
have received notice of a college meeting to be held here during 
Synod. It is undoubtedly preliminary to a move for removal. 
I am not going to oppose the removal. Clinton College will 
arise from the dust of this P. C. of S. C. My plan to defeat the 
present move will be simply to fix the consent of all the Presby- 
terians as necessary to removal. If I fail in this, which is very 
probable, I will know just what to look for. I have not acted 
wisely in the charter-getting business of the college very evident- 
ly. The last charter (1902) was a miserable mistake and I am 
reaping the benefit of it. It is now too late to remedy the mat- 
ter. But it is not too late for me to w^ork for the continuance of 
Clinton College of old time success. 

September thirtieth — I closed the month with the exact sum 
given that I asked of the Lord but I didn't ask enough by $700.00. 
We are that much behind. 

October seventeenth — At a meeting of the Board of Trustees 
to day I was again defeated in my last effort to save the P. C. 
of S. C. to Clinton. So now I am quietly dropped out of the 
whole scheme. My interest is now to relay the foundation of 



368 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Clinton College and to prepare it for its future career. Perhaps 
I may yet live to see it brought to the point I contemplated from 
the very first — a college for youth of both sexes, including the 
manual training idea. At any rate I will not agree to serve as 
a member of the P. C. of S. C. under its new charter. 

October tiventy-second — Synod has come and gone. It was 
a great body — genial, splendid, but alas, it voted to give away 
the Seminary to Georgia. I voted, prayed, talked against it — 
all in vain. The vote was 96 to 52. I was with the 52. I here 
record my protest. It was a wrong, a silly thing to do. And 
the Synod will regret it but once and that is always. The breth- 
ren gave us a splendid meeting at the Orphans' chapel. Our 
children entertained the ''fathers and brethren" with fun of 
their own. A fine collection resulted. At a meeting of the 
Presbytery I was elected a member of the Board of Trustees. I 
opposed my own election but I have accepted. And I am go- 
ing to serve. And moreover I shall take hold of it with a grip. 
Dr. Neville is to come to us as President. He is a sensible man. 
I am going to throw around all my best influence and shall try 
to work for his success. I do hope I can get him to agree to my 
plans. If not, I will work his. 

November sixth — The terror of fire -aroused us yesterday 
morning just after midnight. Our beautiful Memorial Hall was 
in flames. After 36 hours, it is still burning. Well, the Lord 
gives. The Lord has taken away. Our loss is heavy, certainly 
about $6000.00. While the roof was falling in, Joe Bailey hand- 
ed me $50.00 and the next A. M. Will brought me $200.00. All 
day long the gifts of provisions came in. The people opened 
their doors and offered five hundred homes for meals. We will 
rebuild. I was fearfully busy and fearfully tired at night. 

November thirteenth — It is wonderful, nevertheless it is 
true that in one week from the date of the fire, in addition to 
$14000.00 in cash and $500.00 in provisions, I have received 
$4000.00 for the rebuilding fund. So, here I thank God, out of 
my whole heart. 

My little church has raised $1000.00 this month. We gave 
$500.00 to the Orphanage, $250.00 to the furnace and $280.00 
to the carpet beside sundry other little collections. I am proud 
of the works. 

November twenty-fifth — After a delightful Thanksgiving 
Day — in which the children enjoyed themselves greatly and in 
the midst of their romps, our beautiful Seminary building — in 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 369 

which was our sacred chapel, our beautiful spot of sweet wor- 
ship — was found on fire. A great crowd gathered but there was 
no hope of saving it. It burned to the ground. So in one month 
two of our best buildings have been taken from us. 

This evening a telegram from Mrs. McC. offering $2500.00 
if others would give a like sum. I wish she had said $5000.00. 
God bless her. 

November thirtieth — This month ends. It has been a most 
marvelous month. We have had two terrible fires, we have laid 
the foundation of the Kistler Cooking School. We have changed 
our household life. We have received $9,500 for the building 
and $4000 for support. 

December — Well, it was a bitter pill to swallow but the 
Master is moving the rubbish out of the way, alright. I now 
see before me a very, very hard year's work. I have a great 
deal to do. Indeed I have. Lord, help and guide thy servant 
and bring me out into a plain path because of my enemies. I 
trust Thee and fear not. 

December twelfth — We are anxious to get to work on the 
Georgia Cottage in the spring. How busy we will be. 

My church work is a saddening experience. I feel the utter 
indifference to me personally. I fear I have no "hold" on them. 
I want to visit more and see what effect that will have. I fear 
that the time has come for me to give place to others. I have the 
feeling that these fires are paving the way for me to devote 
my time to the Orphanage, especially that chapel. The fires 
are changing the whole system of Orphanage life. 



135 Rush Street, Chicago 

November 25, 1904 
Dear Mr. Jacobs: 

I have just seen with sorrow a note of your great calamity — the burn- 
ing of your dining hall! 

I must enclose herewith Two Thousand dollars with which to start the 
building of a new dining Hall. Please use it for this. 

I have only a moment to write. I feel for you from the depths of my 
heart — you — so good — so faithful in all this great work for the Orphans, 
tc- have such a sorrow j'tkI burd'^n to bear! 

I have just returned from the funeral of my only brother — most dear 
to me. 

With deepest sympathy, 

Ever your friend 

N. F. McCormick. 
P. S. Check for $2,000 enclosed. 



370 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

1905— Age 62 

I ended the old year with bright prospects for which I hum- 
bly thank God. Since October first I have received for the build- 
ing fund $13,500 
For the endowment fund 1,000 
For the support fund - 9,500 

Making a total for the three months of $24,000 which is 
more than all of last year's receipts. Neither does the above in- 
clude $2000.00 received for the Georgia Fund and $1000.00 in- 
terest on endowment. 

God gave me all I asked for in December both for the build- 
ing and the support fund. And I do not hesitate to ask Him for 
$2500.00 for this month of January. 

January fifteenth — Mrs. McCormick has given us the 
$500.00 promised, making $2500.00 as her gift. The bad wea- 
ther has been very hard on us. I am still distressed about Thorn- 
well's leaving us. But I am more and more convinced that it is 
for the best. I pray for his highest good. 

February nineteenth — Thornwell left us last week and I am 
alone once more in the work. God be with and bless my son and 
make him great in Israel. My heart is bowed before the Lord 
in prayer for him. 

A great amount of work will be got through with this year. 
I thank God for His help in the matter. God is good and kind 
and deals kindly with me. I remember that He has said ''With 
long life will I satisfy him and shew him My salvation." All 
the work the Master has laid on me is getting into better shape. 
Dr. Neville has taken hold of the college and the new professor's 
residence is about finished. Oh, for a revival in the church. 

February twenty-sixth — Two little children were received 
into the church today. Two old people left it — one for Laurens 
(dear old Dr. Boozer) and the other (Mrs. Little) for the 
kingdom of heaven. I had three hundred at Sunday School and 
four hundred at church. I have just been reading an article 
from a Dr. who advises chloroforming and doing away with 
every Fjody above sixty years of age — they being worthless to 
the world. I followed that with the reading of another article 
on the setting aside of all preachers beyond sixty. All this hits 
me hard. For my own part 1 have been drawing near to the 
point when I must settle the question of my own duty. It ap- 
pears to me that the time has come or at least is very near when 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 371 

I must devote my attention to the Orphanage. The opportunity 
of securing a support of the Orphanage is now here. Thornwell's 
salary is at my service if I choose to accept it. The new audi- 
torium for the Orphanage is a fixed fact and will be ready next 
year. In another year the Orphanage will be too large to be 
accommodated in the church and sabbath school rooms. And 1 
have at least come to believe that the church is ready for a 
change of pastors. I believe that the church will grow effectual- 
ly under a new man and that the cause of Christ will prosper 
by the establishment of a church at the orphanage. 

March fifteenth — I am 63 years old this day. 

March nineteenth — Work progressed splendidly last week on 
all the buildings now under way. We will get the roof of the 
'*new'' Seminary on this week. And the floors laid in the tower. 
I think that we will about finish off the Eldridge Fowler Cot- 
tage this week. We are clearing away the rubbish of the old 
building (Sem) just as fast as possible. If we have good wea- 
ther, we will complete it this week and will lay off and begin 
work on the new chapel. Dr. Long's gift of rock is coming in 
with a rush. It is a noble offering. The Tate carload of marble 
for Georgia Home has arrived. We will begin on the Georgia 
Home shortly. I will arrange to lay cornerstone of Chapel on 
the 2th of May. Of Georgia Home during commencement, pos- 
sibly. 

March tiventy-seventh — I pray God to give me wisdom. I 
need it. So many are the questions to be solved and so many 
the duties involved but. Lord, show me the way. Give me guid- 
ance. Oh, how earnestly I cry for light on all my dark places. 
Keep me from making mistakes. 

April twentihsecond — The result of the week's work on the 
three buildings is good but building now is costing too much. 
The Eldridge Fowler Cottage will cost $3300.00. The restored 
Memorial Hall — now Seminary building, will cost as much. It 
originally cost only $3600 and the walls certainly were worth 
$1500.00. I cannot say what the chapel will cost us but it looks 
as if it would cost $12,000 which is way beyond us financially. 
Still, when the dear Lord gives us these buildings complete, what 
r, glorious outlook there will be for these orphans. In the mean- 
while the furnishing of Gorton Cottage and of Eldridge Fowler 
and of the Seminary and of the chapel and the repairs of the 
Musgrove cottage and the installing of the machinery at Mus- 
grove Mill all have to be provided and moreover $10,000 addi- 
tional insurance. Oh, Lord, send help! 



372 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

April ninth — We have about finished off the Fowler Cot- 
tage. By the end of this week it will be occupied and by the 
end of the month we will be in the renovated Seminary. 

April ttventy-third — The congregation gave the old church 
building to the college association. . . . Our new clock was put 
up and is striking the hours today. 

April thirtieth — How different the way of getting about 
is now^ from what it was when first I knew Clinton, and how we 
rush. Yesterday I left home at twelve A. M., moderated a meet- 
ing of Presbytery at Cross Hill, examined, ordained and installed 
Bradley as Pastor and was back home at 2:20. Railroads cer- 
tainly get a move on us. 

April thirtieth — We had to bring in chairs to seat the crowd 
at church this morning. Attendance at Sunday School 318. 

May seventh — This morning we had our first service in the 
auditorium of the new Seminary building. Tonight I preach 
there for the first time. This morning I received by letter seven 
members of Brother Neville's family. 

May twenty-eighth — I was ordained to the ministry 41 years 
ago this day. . . We also reshingled the roof of Faith Cottage. 
Sundry other small matters were attended to. 

May thirty-first — By God's goodness we succeeded in rais- 
ing the $1,000 I asked for in May but we close the month today 
with only $16.00 in the treasury. My prayer, earnest and ur- 
gent is for $1300.00 next month. We have never been in so 
tight a place at this season of the year before. All of our sur- 
plus is gone. God pity these dear children. I have felt all the 
week more than my usual anxiety for the supply of the family 
needs. Well, God is good and he can do great things and He 
will do it. Lord, hand some special blessing to the Orphanage 
during the month of June. 

June third — / am not going to fight for retention of the 
college. If the Board can do such a wickedness as to overthrow 
the fruits of my labors, simply because they have the power, I 
am. sorry for them. 

June ninth — I have found out that the Presbyterian Church 
is ungrateful after the manner of other republics. Our college 
is to be taken from us by the Board of Trustees, that we our- 
selves provided for. It is a shameful thing and one that makes 
me hang my head. I resigned my presidency of the Board after 
all these 25 years of service and received in return not one word 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 373 

of kind commendation, not one syllable of regret, not one ex- 
pression of encourajrement but as pay for all my services, only 
the throwing open of the sale of the college to the highest bid- 
der .... What will I do? I have already decided that. ^Fhe 
College association will take steps to continue Clinton College. 
We will claim for it the history of the past. Our session will 
open in 1907. It will be our 27th year. We will find a man 
equal to the task of reorganization. Forever our dependence 
is on the Lord. 

June tenth — I am the more and more convinced that I am 
he'pless to undertake the mighty work to be done here. The 
church should have had a pastor (another beside myself) a year 
or tw^o ago. My resignation must go in before the next meeting 
of Presbytery and be acted upon. I must give all my time to 
the Thornwell Orphanage. 

June eleventh — I preached today on "I have loved thee with 
an everlasting love." 

June twenty-fifth — Our Board was better represented than 
last year. They called me to take the pastoral oversight of the 
Orphanage. Salary $600.00 ... I see the papers are full of 
College matters. I haven't a doubt but that the college will go. 
Such is the gratitude of the church. 

July twenty-second — My trust is in the Lord. He is doing, 
He always has done the thing for me that was best. I trust Him 
out of a full heart. Well, this also is decided — that if the col- 
lege is moved to Chester or Anderson or anywhere else, it will 
leave Clinton College behind. Lord, keep thou thy hand upon 
this move and guide for the best. 

JuJy thirtieth — A wonderful thing has happened. Clinton 
ha?, actually subscribed $10,000 for the college. It will prob- 
ably be increased to $15,000 and it may go, some write, to $25,- 
000. I earnestly hope so. This looks as if Clinton was going 
to keep the college! Still there is no telling what prejudices 
may do. Clinton (et ego me ipse) has some cordial enemies. 
Still it is easy to see what we can do if it is determined that 
Clinton College shall continue. . . . Today I preached the semi- 
centennial of the Clinton Church. A good congregation. 

August cixth — I had a week at the River — enjoyed it. Bessie 
Feebeck was Matron. 

August twelfth — I suppose it was only because I was blind 
— I ought to have seen and known how it would be but the meet- 



374 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ing of the Executive Committee of the Presbyterian College of 
South Carolina has revealed it — that I am no longer ''persona 
grata" in college matters. Whether the college is moved or not 
does not depend on my wishes or my efforts one way or another. 
In fact, I am disposed to think that there is a fixed purpose on 
the part of Drs. McPheeters, Adams and Byrd to find some 
point in my harness through which they may shoot their arrows 
and that in some way I am personally disagreeable to them. I 
do not wish to injure the college or to antagonize these gentle- 
men, but whether I speak or keep silent, it will be construed 
against me. I have, therefore, withdrawn from the college Board 
of Trustees. And, moreover, I will have nothing further to say 
on the whole subject. I have been wounded and defeated by 
those whom I loved best. My zeal for the college has been con- 
strued as antagonism. Hence, so far as the college is concerned, 
exit Jacobs. 

August twentieth — I have placed all my college troubles in 
thy hands, Oh, Lord. My heart is perfectly at rest in thee. It 
was a great disappointment when the ''Presbyterian" was moved 
from Clinton. Perhaps the result will be an Orphanage weekly 
which will, after all, be the only Presbyterian weekly in South 
Carolina. Lord, show me the best thing to do about this. And 
so if the college goes, may God bless it and give it good success, 
but the result will be Clinton College with possibly a new build- 
ing and the old college recitation hall a part of the Orphanage 
property. I am not worrying any now. God is good. He will 
do the best thing. I trust Him. 

The college will be bid for by Yorkville, Chester, Bennetts- 
ville, Sumter and possibly Anderson. So much rancor has been 
developed here that the Board will doubtless move it anyway. 
Clinton is a house divided against itself. Our leaders are new 
men and we old friends are set aside severely. It is my policy 
to sit still. I am for peace, but when I speak they are for war. 
So I won't speak. The very close future seems to reveal me as 
doing the resigning act. I must give the church a new pastor. 
My life henceforth narrows to the Orphanage and my family. 
I will not resign in a storm. I want everything to be peaceful 
and full of good will when I step down and out. 

September — God gave mo all I asked for in August. I dare 
ask Him for $1500.00 in September. Lord send it, if it be thy 
will. I think we might as well stop saying "if the college is 
moved." It is now "when the college is moved." If Columbia 
decides to bid for it or Anderson to one or the other it will go. 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 375 

And Anderson is going to bid. My resignation from the church 
now would also drop me from the college association — that would 
put me so that I can do nothing for the college in any way. We 
had a meeting of the college association on Wednesday at which 
we made a bid of our present property, to the Board of Trustees, 
in order to secure the location of the college here. I have put 
all my matters in God's hands and am asking Him to direct me 
as He would. 

September seventeenth — The Clinton people have, with 
great enthusiasm subscribed $20,000 to secure the college in ad- 
dition to $20,000 of other property. But Bennettsville has rais- 
ed $20,000 more. I will wait and see. 

September twenty-fourth — This week settles the fate of the 
college. I am not grieving over the matter. Chester and Sum- 
ter are both making desperate efforts to get the college. Well, 
we have a college anyway and that is some consideration. 

September thirtieth — Well, thank God, the college matter 
is settled and settled right. Clinton rose up in her strength and 
resolved that she would have the college. Thirty or more of us 
went down to Columbia on Thursday. The Board met at eight 
in the Seminary Chapel. Each of the five towns competing for 
the cause were heard. Rev. Mr. Parrott spoke for the Clinton 
delegation. He certainly fired up. The old chapel heard more 
applause than it ever heard before. The whole meeting was a 
grand one. Bennettsville, Yorkville, Sumter and Chester were 
all competing for the prize. All the next day the Board was in 
session. At seven P. M. Clinton won out, and the vote was 
made unanimous. I thank God. There was a regular love feast. 
All of us made up with each other. And now the one great idea 
is to make the college a most worthy and noble institution. I 
left Columbia at one A. M. and reached home at five A. M'., tired 
and sleepy. The town has covered itself with glory. My col- 
lege is now the State's college. I trusted everything to God. 
God bless and prosper the college! Clinton is having great times 
over her success. I have just made up my accounts and find that 
the Lord gave me $150.00 more than I asked Him for for the 
current month, a better month of September than we ever had 
before. 

We are putting on the roof of our new chapel. We are 
to purchase the old college recitation hall for our School edifice. 
Good. 

October tenth — Our Board of Trustees — the Clinton College 
Association — is no more. We have transferred every right. 



376 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

moral, legal, spiritual, theoretical, practical and general to the 
College Board of Trustees in all property of all kinds belonging 
to the college and I do hope they are through with us. And may 
God prosper the college and keep it here, forevermore. Cer- 
tainly He is willing and if His hand takes hold of things here 
as I humble trust He is, He will straighten out this tangle. I 
am in no connection legally with the college in anyway. And 
my only business now is to pray for it. 

Now, dear Lord, help me to do the right thing, to keep 
near to Thee and to follow Thy guidance and all will yet be right. 

November — Beside 200 orphans we had about 150 at church 
today. Two people came up to tell me what a splendid sermon it 
was. I often have these kind words, but they are usually from 
Brother Scruggs and Sister Bean. 

November nineteenth — I had a fine audience this morning, 
possibly four hundred out. There were 305 at Sabbath School, 
several new pupils. Every Sabbath morning somebody tells me 
'*! enjoyed your sermon so much." Yesterday eve, Ferd called 
around with his automobile and wheeled us (Cleo, Cyrus, Mrs. 
Clark and myself) through nine miles in thirty minutes. In the 
ancient days this is one of the things I did not dream would 
ever come to Clinton. 

November thirtieth — The Lord's name is to be praised. 
This morning I had $1500.00 in hand for the support fund. I 
was saying to myself for once is my boasting vain. Alas, the 
Lord is rebuking the vain glory of His servant. When my mail 
came in, it helped me wonderfully. There was a single check 
for $400.00 and others that broght me nearly to $2300.00. Then 
there was a tap on the door. A young man asked to see me 
privately and handed me $300.00. I had received my $2500.00. 
More than that. I had $175.00 returned to another fund that 
I had borrowed from to make out my $1500.00. I turned over 
to the treasurer $2675.00. In a single day I had received $1175 
as against $1500.00 for 29 days preceding. How wonderfully 
God has helped. He was always shown himself to be marvelous 
in mercies. I rejoice in Him. 

But this is not all. I had asked the dear Lord that he would 
have the McCall legacy which goes to our permonent fund, paid 
also. It came in promptly. It is with this sum that we will 
be able, if it is so determined, to purchase the old college build- 
ing. So with this last day of November, I am glad of heart. 



AGE SIXTY-ONE— 1904 377 

December — Dear Master, we never yet have received $5000 
in any one month for our support fund yet. But that sum, dear 
Lord, would pay us through this month and give us $:}000.00 in 
the treasury and that would mean two weeks of rest for me in 
February. May I ask it? 

December tenth — We lost Bro. Prather, our farmer, ye.ster- 
day. He was a good man and a true and devoted friend of mine 
and ever ready to help me in all I wanted him to. I shall miss 
him. We bury him today. His family will be in fairly good con- 
dition. 

Up to today the dear Master has sent me $2,000, an aver- 
age of $200 a day. I am glad and grateful. 

December seventeenth — I was certainly very much surpris- 
ed when my deacons met and agreed to ask the congregation 
to raise my salary to $1,000 and to pay it promptly each month. 
And the congregation agreed to do so. Well ! This for a little 
while means that I must work harder. I do not think I was 
earning the $750.00 they were paying me. How shall I ever 
earn the thousand? 

Up to date $4300.00 for support. May our dear Lord make 
it $5000.00. 

December thirty- first — The wonderful thing has happened. 
God gave me, more than the $5000.00. I thought so impossible 
on the first of this month. $5696 were received for the support. 
I also received from Christiansburg $672 for their scholarship 
and $500 from an unknown Florida friend. I am made very 
glad and grateful. So my year has been crowned with success. 
God is good. I know He is present with me. I give Him my 
wholesouled thanks and service. His name be praised forever 
and ever. The whole year has been one of struggles and suc- 
cesses. We began it blue over our burned buildings. Two have 
been rebuilt and occupied, two others are almost finished. The 
college was on sale. We have paid down the cash to retain it. 
Our Monthly was under hack. I have straightened out the dif- 
ficulty. Our children were crying for water. Our Katherine 
well came marvelously. Thornwell left me. But the Lord made 
it clear that this was best. I was gravely in doubt about my 
church duty. The people made it clear by increasing my salary. 
The Orphanage funds were far behind. The Lord has brought 
them up on the run. Our endowment has been increased, and 
our grounds and buildings, by getting control of the old college. 
It is all most wonderful! 



CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE 

1906— Age 63 

I am asking for $2500.00 for this month with a balance in 
treasury of $2,000. 

January twenty-ninth — I still lack a hundred dollars of the 
$2500.00 I asked for this month. But I have asked and I trust. 

January thirty-first — Well the Lord has dealt bountifully 
with me. He gave me the $2500.00 I pleaded for. We closed 
the month with $4300.00 in the treasury. It is a most myster- 
ious thing He is doing in and through and for me. My heart is 
glad in Him. The year is a year of mercy and a year of marvels. 

February thirteenth — I am in Columbia on my way to Nas- 
sau. Daughter Elliott is with me. Rooms 57-59. She is out 
tonight enjoying tea with the Caldwell's. I am just up from 
the hotel table. Memory is busy with the Columbia of '64. What 
a contrast. Now it is an electric city. Its growth like that of 
all our Piedmont country is upward and onward. One sky 
scraper. The State house and that sky scraper dominate the 
city. 

February fourteonth — It is one of the singular coincidences 
that couldn't happen once in a thousand times, that here at the 
Florida, St. Augustine, Elliott and I have the same numbers 
57-59 that we had at the Columbia the first part of last night. 

February ttventy- fourth — While I was away at Jacksonville 
and beyond, the good Master sent us $10,000 — the Lees legacy 
paid in full. It is hard to realize that this great sum has come 
into our hands. We have also received notice of a legacy of Miss 
Annie Robinson, soon to be paid that will amount to $4,500. I 
find the Chapel walls complete — floor laid and ceiling painted. 
The work goes on nicely. We received about $1200.00 for the 
support in cavsh and $300.00 in supplies — mostly guano. I thank 
God for his goodness. 

March third — Out in an automobile twice this week. How 
we moderns fly. 

March fifth — We had a meeting of the Session yesterday 
evening and at that meeting I announced to the brethren the 
necessity, in case the Schools are divided, that the orphanage 
children should be organized into a church of their own. It 

378 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 379 

pained me somewhat but gave me the idea that this would be 
the outcome of the deliberations. They postponed further dis- 
cussion for one month. In the meantime it seems clear to me 
that the next step will be my resignation and along with that a 
request to Presbytery from the Orphan pupils for a separate 
church. My resignation will be accepted and the end will come. 
Well, my Saviour is in the lead. Of course it will be painful 
but I am sure it will be best. Even so, Lord, for it seems good 
in thy sight. I have been led by a way that I knew not, but He is 
making plain the path for my feet. 

March eighteenth — When the time comes to give up this 
church, how hard it will be! I can only give one reason for 
withdrawing — my earnest hope that they will find somebody 
that will build up the church and make it a better church. 

Lo, for these many years, it has been talk, talk, talk about 
"resigning the church." I think I must have written of my 
purpose to do so a thousand times. Why have I not done it? 
Oh, how I hate to sever that bond. In the meanwhile all the 
peradventures have come to pass. I have severed my connec- 
tion with the college, have succeeded in the various suggested 
church plans, Clinton first, Clinton second, Lydia and last of 
all Thornwell Orphanage. I have raised the money necessary 
to provide my support. Have changed charters to bring it all 
about and am even told by my children that the church is ready 
to accept my resignation. Really, I have but one reason for 
holding on and that is the impression that it will be a distress 
to this people to have me withdraw. My first duty is to them. 
I love them best. If they do not cling to me, I am gladly ready 
to withdraw. But in the meantime they have increased my sal- 
ary and built a new ch^arch and given thousands to the college, 
have, in fact done everything I ever asked them to do. But the 
church is disintegrating. It needs a change. 

March twenty-fourth — The Lord has lovingly given me all 
that I asked Him in this month. He lacked of giving me what I 
asked last month by $150.00. He will put that to my credit, 
also before this week is out. 

March twenty-eighth — We are in the midst of a delightful 
meeting with splendid congregations — 3 to 400 at every service. 
We are listening to Mr. Lees' preaching and Wardlaw*s singing, 
with beautiful delight. There will be additions of course. God 
has already given me all I asked for from him for this current 
month. I always ask for more than for the corresponding month 
of the preceding year. The Lord gave me all I asked for, this 



380 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

month, and more than enough to make up for last month's small 
lack. 

April — Lord give me $1250.00 for the Orphans this month. 
What a glorious meeting we have had. I asked God to give me 
64 souls. He has already given me 55 and I believe I will receive 
more than I asked for — which was one for each year I have 
lived. Gus McLees did the preaching. Wardlaw the singing. We 
are happy over the results. I look for other additions today. I 
am glad over the thought of the splendid report I will make to 
Presbyery. Over $10,000 and 75 souls. This is our year's gift 
to our Lord Jesus. 

We have had a glorious day of it. Eleven more were re- 
ceived, making 66, two more than I asked and some precious 
souls still on the outside! God save them. Over 300 persons 
communed today. All the new converts were received publicly. 
I baptised 35. Our people's hearts were full. The collection 
for Synodical missions, I fear is under $75.00. I wanted a hun- 
dred and a hundred we ought to have. 

And now I am glad, so glad. It has made it possible for 
me, however, to see clearly that I can do nothing else than re- 
sign and that because: 

1. Of the feeling that the Orphanage has usurped pastor 
and church and sabbath school and ought to be separated. 

2. Because I have done and am doing so little pastoral work 
and am growing less fitted for it. 

3. Because of my unceasing deafness and hoarseness. 

4. Because of the love for me on the part of my people, 
caused by my absorption in business. 

5. Because I lack the entire backing of my session — caused 
by the college trouble. 

6. Because the time has come. Another could do better. 
So, on next sabbath my resignation will be handed in. 

Dr. Neville showed me a day or two since the splendid plans 
for the newest college buildings. They will be very handsome. 
I expect to live to be proud of them. 

April eif/hth — Dr. Boozer, my dear old friend, died suddenly 
and was buried Tuesday. 

April thirteenth — Thornwell came in from Atlanta today. 



AGE SIXTY-THREE— 1906 381 

He tells me that he is elected to head the Georgia University 
movement. It is well. I trust he will accept. I am a little in 
hope that Dillard will move to Clinton. All my children will 
then be in good shape. Thornwell will move to Atlanta if he 
accepts the offer. 

April twentieth — This is the 41st anniversary of my mar- 
riage. Oh, Mary dear, I love thee. 

April t went I) -first — I had a long talk with Mr. Bailey yes- 
terday. He urges that I should not resign the church now or 
ever. He seems to think that it would ruin the church for me 
to do it. 

May twelfth — The celebrated Lieutenant Hobson of Merri- 
mac fame was at church today and seemed to think that my ser- 
mon did him good. He was one of some 500 or more present. We 
had a fine anniversary congregation. We had a Sunday School 
of 352. 

May twentieth — Only $700.00 to date. Lord, make it $18- 
00.00. 

Jinie — I ended May with $1160 in the treasury of the sup- 
port fund against $16.00 last year. This is very good. I thank 
God. Moreover God gave me the $1200.00 I asked him for. I 
am asking for $1300.00 this month. I feel sure he will answer 
this prayer also — nevertheless His will be done. 

June fifth — The cornerstone of the new college building 
was laid today. My part of the program was to "pronounce the 
benediction." 

June sixth — College 26th commencement this morning. As 
the News and Courier has it: "Dr. Jacobs sat on the stage." Well, 
that is better than having the stage sit on him. 

June seventeenth — Dr. Richard Orme Flinn did some splen- 
did preaching for us today. 

July first — I received my prayer for June — above $1300.00. 
Now I ask the Master for somewhere in the neighborhood of 
$1800.00 for July. 

July seventh — Ferd preached a splendid sermon for me this 
morning and the people were very much pleased with it. I en- 
joyed it myself. 

One of the trying things now in the way of any work I want 
to do is the "lengthening shadows." Alas! But in looking over 



■ma 



382 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

a list of Presidents I find that they were elected to their high 
offices when they were older than I am! That certainly ought 
to make me realize that there is work for me to do yet. Seven 
or eight were presidents after they passed my age. On the whole 
I don't propose to give up yet. I am now seeing the fruit of 
my labors but I want to be planting seed as well as gathering 
fruit and God helping me I will! I have been two years in 
filling in this book with the incidents of my life. A long time, 
that. Even life ends! Cycles pass by. Eternity dawns. Thank 
God ! 

July fifteenth— Wq are only up to $700.00 of the $1700.00 
that I hoped to get this month — tho I have received $600.00 that 
I might have placed to this support fund and have placed to 
others. But I am not wholly without hope yet. God is rich and 
he can do great things in a very short while. I am humbly pray- 
ing that He would not forget us. 

The great 1300 pound bell in Carolina Memorial will ring 
for the first time this afternoon. It has been hung for some 
time but I was not willing that it should be used until I had paid 
for it. Dr. Neville will preach. I went down to the new college 
building on Saturday. They are putting up the great building, one 
that will be an honor to the little city and will reflect credit upon 
the institution. Work seems to be going on well. What superb 
advances the good cause has made since I first came here — but 
Clinton has grown beyond me. I have not kept pace with the 
town. Perhaps I lacked courage. No. I had that. What I 
lack is physical ability to do all that my heart longs to do for 
the good of the cause. 

July thirty-first — Receipts for this month were $1326 for 
support and $500.00 to be used as I wish. Besides I received 
about $150.00 for the building fund. I have placed that $500.00 
to permanent work, tho, as I asked the Lord for $1700.00 and 
got the above answer. It looks very much as if He intended it 
for the support fund. 



"We are sure not a single member of the Conference will feel ag- 
grieved when we say that a gentle old man with a sweet voice and a 
sweeter spirit, a warm heart and a clear head, towered above his brethren 
but did not know it himself — that man was Dr. J icobs. lie is regarded 
as the father and the rest as his children. Everybody defers to his wis- 
dom and confides in his judgement on any (question that comes before the 
body, for more than thirty years he his been a leading spirit in the or- 
phanage work of the South, and his heart is just as fresh and the note 
he strikes as clear and true as when the sun wis rising on his life. He 
is showing the world how gracefully a Christian can grow old. — Charity 
and Childrev. 



AGE SIXTY-THREE— 1906 383 

States is here. I will see to it, that I get a sermon out of 
him next Sunday. 

Augu>it twetity-sixth — I am now nearing an important epoch 
in my church work. Either on next Sabljath or Sabbath follow- 
ing (the weather will decide which) I am going to tell the peo- 
ple: First — that the debt must be paid. Second — that they 
must sustain the pastor better — or else I lay down the work. 

Well, the dear Lord listened to my prayer and granted me 
within a few dollars of the $1500.00 I asked for. It is simply 
wonderful the way He does it. And best of all we are now $500 
better off, than we were this time last year. 

I have made up this year's report. It is about as follows in 
round numbers: 

Support Fund $23,000 

Endowment Fund 14,000 

Endowment Fund Interest 3,500 

Building Fund 500 

Shops 400 

Printing Office 1,400 

Shoe Department 200 

Farm (cotton) 300 



$43,300 
which is a fine showing for this year and does me good. 

October — I had Thornwell here on Monday, Oct. 1st on 
which day we ''dedicated" the Georgia home. We are fitting 
it up this week and we hope to get moved in on Monday next. 
Everything is busy today with preparations. 

October ninth — Sunday was a good day in the church. On 
Saturday I sent out rally day invitations and on Sunday filled 
up the church with people — 351 at Sunday School. 500 at church 
services. I was still better pleased that we succeeded in more 
than doubling the night congregation. We had fully 250 out. 
On Monday night the Deacons resolved to set to work to pay 
the church debt. God grant us good success. 

October twenty-i^eventh — I had this morning the largest 
number actually present at Sabbath School that we have ever 
had — 371. This was very near the 400 mark. It seems im- 
possible. The congregation however must have run well beyond 
that, possibly near to 500. My sermon was far from being a 
perfect one but, me judice, it was among my best and for that 



■ mi 



384 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I am grateful for God helped me. I had four other ministers 
at church. Sometimes I wonder at the way the Lord has led me 
in my work for Him. He has kept me humble by showing me 
how easily all my work could fall to pieces. He has kept me grate- 
ful by not letting it perish. And best of all he has shown me 
that it was His work and that He will care for it after my poor 
weak hand is taken away from it. 

November first — I asked the Lord to give me $1660 during 
October. He gave me $1708. I bless his holy name. And even 
so I look for a blessing during this month of November. 

Our endowment fund has reached $85,000. Now, if the dear 
Lord will put it into somebody's heart to bring that up to $100,- 

000 during the current year, giving us an increase of $5500.00 
(at least) what a glorious help it would be! We have several 
thousand in sight from three expected legacies, reaching up to 
$90,000. And if the Trustees decline to sell us the old college 
hall as I guess they will, we will add Mr. M'cCall's $5000.00 to 
the endowement I am greedy after money for the orphans but 
am not caring for it myself. If I had set my heart to make 
money, I could have been a rich man today but thank God, I 
can truly say I have enough and am satisfied. I must raise 
$25,000 for the support fund during the 32nd year of the Home. 

■November tiventieth — In the bitterest sorrows of my life I 
have learned to lean upon thee. Oh God ! I know that God is and 

1 trust Him. Sometimes I stand before this stone wall when 
there is no thoroughfare But the very walls give way, that my 
blessed Lord will do the right thing and what is right he knows. 

November thirtieth — Well, the dear Lord did wonderfully 
for me. Though the wheels seemed to drag very heavily for a 
little while, it has all come right at last. God sent me $2880 
during November. My faith was well founded. I am praying 
for $6000.00 during December. It would be a wonderful thing 
if God granted it. I received $5600.00 last December and we 
have 24 more children now than then. It seems almost essential 
that we should have it. 

December fifth — Yesterday, papers were passed between 
the Orphanage and the College releasing to us the old College 
building with the attachments. I have felt that the college is 
making a very foolish surrender in doing this but that it would 
be ungracious in us to refuse to make the trade. We regain 
control of three pieces of land and the builditig is worth the 
money we pay for it I propose occupying it with our collegiate 
department. 



AGE SIXTY-THREE— 1906 • 385 

December fifteenth — I am both distressed and rejoiced. I 
am distressed because we are $300.00 behind last year in our 
receipts for the support fund. I am rejoiced by the receipt of 
$5000.00 for the erection of the James Monroe Silliman Cottage. 
We have to begin on it just as soon as possible. I will have it 
completely finished in October next. It will add $2000.00 to 
annual expenses, etc. But God is able to give us a full return 
of blessings. Now, help me, Lord. I am earnestly praying for 
God to give us funds for the increase of our endowment. 1 have 
had no interest funds that I could use for the support this year. 
It all goes, however, to a very necessary expense account. We 
are making arrangements to purchase 500 more acres at Mus- 
grove. This will give us a farm of 1200 acres. It will be a part 
of our endowment fund. We expect a total yield, eventually, 
of about $1200.00 income from the place. 

December twenty-third — I had a good congregation and 
preached a very good sermon, I guess. At least it reached the 
people. Up to date I have received $4000.00 which is two thirds 
of what I asked for. But I had received almost this much by 
this time last December, hence it is doubtful whether I get $6000 
as I hoped and prayed for. Still God does right always. 

December ticentij -ninth — I want to thank God out of my 
whole heart for his most gracious answer to my prayer. He has 
sent me up to this moment $6175 for support fund. I prayed 
for $6000.00 most earnestly. He has answered me with a large 
and liberal hand. Oh, how good God is. He certainly was good 
to me. I glory in His name. He will do all things right and 
best. I also received $700.00 on the endowment and 100 on the 
Georgia Cottage fund, $200.00 on other funds. In all $12,000 
came into my hands during December. I understand that the 
college received a gift of $3,000. 

1907— Age 64 

Janucu']! fiftectbth — We had a great time last night. Not 
knowing that there was a plot against me, I accepted Ferd's 
invitation to take an automobile ride out to Musgrove Mills. I 
had a bad cold, but the ride was a pleasant one. I found our 
works there and all in fair condition. It was a comfortable all 
round ride. On my return, I beheld that my piazza was lit up 
with Chinese lanterns. The house was full of people. The Ladies 
Aid Society was giving me a great reception to do honor to the 
fact that the church debt is fully, wholly and entirely paid ! The 
Lord has taken me at my word and is certainly making it wrong 



386 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

for me to resign just now. Thank God the whole burden is 
lifted. During the evening the gentlemen of the church pre- 
sented me with a pocketbook with $50.00 in it to be used in my 
trip to Havana and Kingston. The whole eve was a delightful 
one and I am feeling good over it. My God is dealing bounti- 
fully with me, this day. 

Oh, how good God is to me. I have built for his glory, though 
to my own happiness. How wonderfully he has fulfilled my de- 
sire, that God will give to the humble minded a throne of use- 
fulness. God has made this little village a power in the land 
and the end is not yet. Oh, for a man like-minded with myself. 

February third — I had about 500 at church this morn- 
ing, the auditorium was crowded and 100 were seated in the S. 
S. room. I really wonder that I am able to get together such 
crowds. It is true that I had a number of Baptists out and there 
was no preacher in that church. Well, however it be, I thank 
God that, on the verge of 65 years of age, I am still able to 
draw men to Jesus. I love God and rejoice that I am privileged 
to tell of his goodness to the children of men. 

March — During February I received $1260.00. I had asked 
for $1300.00. There was a little shortage but I am expecting 
March to even things up right and to make me square again 
with last year's status and that is my prayer. 

God is near to me today. I realize that He is not only above 
in Lordship, below me for protection, around me in providance, 
but also within me in fellowship. 

March nineteenth — Brother J. B. Parrott, my nearest neigh- 
bor and dear friend — dead ! Dead and buried. He taken, though 
ten years younger than I and I left! But his going is a serious 
admonition ! Lord, help me to use the rest of my days for thy 
honor and glory! I live — yet not L Thou livest in me. Even 
so let it be my Lord. 

March twenty- fourth — We have now been at work for a 
week on the college building and are painting and renovating it 
and will make it a very satisfactory and substantial building. 
It will certainly, with the ground it stands on, be worth $10,000 
when we get through with it. The Orphanage is worth now about 
a quarter of a million dollars. That sounds pretty big but "Thou 
shalt see greater things than these." By God's grace we dedi- 
cated our church today. The total cost including everything 
was $21,000. There remains $34.00 in the treasury. The day 
was ideal. The congregation crowded the church and school 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 387 

room. Cornelson's sermon was good. And God has given me to- 
day, the last one of my "conditions" on which I based my pur- 
pose to remain as a Pastor. 

First — The church debt was paid. 

Second — The money for a mill pastor, secured. 

Third — A church membership raised to 400. 

Fourth — Four hundred actually present at Sunday School. 
There were 416 at S. S. today. 

March thirtieth — At the outset of this month I prayed ear- 
nestly to God to give me $2,000, which I thought I must have 
for the month's needs. I gratefully acknowledge his goodness 
in having sent me $2150 which is $800.00 more than I received 
in March 1906. At least, we will not be behind last year and I 
earnestly hope we will be several hundred dollars better off. 
The News and Courier had a very fine write up of the dedication 
service by Fronde Kennedy. I appreciate her work very much. 

April fourteenth — I had fine congregations today and as on 
last sabbath I was "full of work." I had kind words spoken 
about my preaching. My preaching seems to suit Clinton, and 
very, very often I am asked to speak elsewhere. And yet not 
more than once or twice have I been asked to deliver commence- 
ment discourses or lectures. I have comforted myself with the 
idea that it is not in me to talk merely for talk's sake. I am 
too much disposed to regard the platform as a place to lead up to 
God. Like Paul, I want to tell of Jesus every chance I get. 

The curious part of this is that I am the founder of a col- 
lege; and yet college people do not favor me — no — not even the 
people who run the college that I have founded! Well, it is all 
right — and especially is it all right if God will use that college 
for His own glory. It may never give me credit for what I did 
for it (till after I am gone) but even now I pray for its pros- 
perity that it may become a mighty instrument for the uplift- 
ing of the banners of God. 

Forty-two years ago I married one of the angels of God 
and one day I shall see her. My heart longs for her. 

June sixth — The college commencement was a very fine af- 
fair. The great thing was the dedication of the new administra- 
tion building and the location of two new structures — the dormi- 
tory and the refectory. I had the pleasure of making a speech. It 
seems to have been very acceptable to the college people. We 



388 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

will have the McCall building ready for use this week or next. 
Also we will finish the building of the walls of the Silliman Cot- 
tage. 

June ninth — I reached Dr. Neville's residence yesterday, just 
in time to see him die ! Alas ! A great m^n in Israel has fallen. He 
ill! had severe trials in his work here, and I fear was not happy in 

it, and that makes his death bad, indeed. Though the college 
has given me some distresses the last three years, yet I felt noth- 
ing but kindness for the Doctor and I grieve sorely that he has 
so quickly gone out of its history. May God guide them to a 
good and satisfactory choice for a successor. 

June twenty-second — Well, we had a great commencement. 
The Governor presided at our Board Meeting and we did good 
work. He spoke to a thousand people at night. On Wednesday 
we had electric lights for the first time and our chapel was the 
only building that has been lit, up to this date. "Everybody" 
says it was the best exhibition we ever had. But the hall look- 
ed fine and the lights set it off, if indeed we did have five minutes 
in the dark. 

June thirtieth — God is doing wonderful things through 
Brother J. C. Shive for our college. He has already raised a 
subscription in three months of $36,000. I am both surprised and 
delighted. There is, I hope, a great future before the college. 
The most surprising of all gifts however is $7000 from Laurens, 
for Laurens Dormitory. How our God brings blessings of trials! 
And he is teaching me and oh how glad I am that it is so — that 
he can take care of his work without my help. I have to thank 
Him for having sent me what I asked for for our June support. 
I am expecting great things of him. 

Brother Shive came round to see me yesterday to describe 
the wonderful work the Lord is doing through him for the col- 
lege. Then he commented on me and urged on me the duty of 
diminishing my work; that two men's work was always too much 
for one man — and is now too much for me. Well, I have resolv- 
ed on a test and here it is, Lord. If I can faithfully perform the 
pastoral visiting and at the same time be instrumental in wel- 
coming twenty members to the church within the next three 
months I will know it is not my duty to resign. 

Jul]i fourth — Riverside — I expect a crowd out from town to- 
day and will go in with them. Dillard will be with them. He 
has come to Clinton to make his home and I am very happy over 
it. The weather out here today is almost cold, though it is the 
fourth of July. Our Orphan treasury is empty. 



■ mi 

■TBI 






AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 889 

July seventeeth — I love Him because he heard my prayers. 
I ought also to thank Him more than I have for having kept 
me pure from my infancy to this day, fitting me for the charge 
of so many girls and women as are under my protection. Never 
once have I broken his law of purity nor have I ever taken his 
name in vain — nor have I once been under the influence of liquor 
— nor once have I taken that which was not mine, since I learned 
the right I have never bet or played a game of cards. I thank 
God for all this. 

July twenty-first — I reached home Friday to find that the 
work under Mr. Scott's direction had not gone forward as I 
hoped. Saturday was a very warm day and I could not do the 
visiting I had expected to do. I found Thornwell here. He has 
just published a book that lays its scenes at the Orphanage. I 
am pleased with it on the whole. 

Augu.'it — My house was struck by lightning today. Electric 
lights and telephone burned out. 

August tenth — Ninety-nine years ago my dear old father, 
now a saint in glory, came into this world. 

August eleventh — The brethren have been urging me to 
withdraw my resignation. I expected it but conditions require 
relief. I feel sure that it must go further. My heart says con- 
sent, my judgment says no. I have just come from the Session 
and deacon's Court. — A unanimous refusal to consider my res- 
ignation. Now what? 

August twenty-sixth — With the opening up of the new ses- 
sion, my soul fills up with a mighty yearning to do great things 
for God. I am set — fully set — on making my 66th year a year 
that counts. I am happy over the progress made hitherto but 
it isn't enough. I want to enlarge and to solidify and strength- 
en the work. When I see what God has done through me, in 
College, Orphanage, Church, Publication, Mission work I feel 
very humble. 

September — Well, the Lord gave me $2,000. I hoped He 
would, though I didn't dare ask it! It is just simply wonderful. 

September twenty-eighth — Well, the Board has elected Dr. 
Adams, President. I have felt sore at his treatment of me for 
these three years past but I shall accept him as a co-worker, and 
pray for good success in keeping from any hard thoughts, even. 
I have no fear of any unkind words. 

October first — The 32nd anniversary of the opening of the 



■mV 



■nn 



i 



^ 



390 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Thornwell Orphanage. I wonder if I shall be here to celebrate 
the 50th. That is in Thy hands, Lord. 

October sixth — This past week has been a very trying one 
at the Infirmary. We now have seven cases of scarlet fever. I 
am glad that they are still confined to two of the cottages. And 
I earnestly pray that the evil may go no further. But we are 
helpless in our Father's hands. Everything had begun so beau- 
tifully on the place — with the new school year — then came this 
calamity. In addition we are a thousand dollars in arrears in 
our treasury. But I am trusting God and will do my level best 
to relieve every calamity and these also. 

Octobe?' thirteenth — As usual, I had a very fine congrega- 
tion, there being over 500 present. I thought I preached a very 
good sermon and I earnestly pray that God may use it to do some 
soul good, but as far as I can judge, the people didn't think it 
was good as I did. I certainly have a church from which a 
mighty influence goes out — with so many young students whose 
minds I am impressing for good or ill. 

October tiventy -seventh — The Lord has very graciously giv- 
en me the $2,000 I asked for this month. Indeed, it will be, I 
think that He will also give me the $300.00 I lacked last manth. 
I am very glad. I have with me Rev. Yosif Benjamin, a Persian 
licentiate who preaches today — Oh, for courage and strength to 
do all the work my God has given me to do. 

November second — I have just returned from a delightful 
meeting of Synod at Anderson. Everybody made it good for me. 
Scores of people pressed around me and urged on me an intro- 
duction. I was certainly made to feel that I had the hearts of 
the people. 

November tiventy-secooid — I am not afraid. I am trust- 
ing God. Funds low. None coming in. A great panic in the 
land. Little cotton made and none selling. What shall I do but 
trust the Lord? There are only eight days more and I have 
received but $1600.00 ... On the first day of this month I asked 
the Lord for $3,000. He has wonderfully answered my prayer. 
I felt sure that if a $400.00 gift I have been receiving in Nov- 
ember for some years past, came in, I would get that $3,000. 
I leaned on that up to the last mail. But it never came and I 
expected to be that much short, but blessed Lord, thou gavest 
me to my surprise, $2,980 for the support and $160.00 for the 
furnishing fund (Silliman cottage). So 1 am glad in God and 
I do rejoice that He is, in His wonderful way, answering my 



m 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 391 

prayers. The work goes on. God, thou givest me money. Oh, 
give me wisdom also, that I may do just what is right and what 
I ouj?ht to do. 

December ticenty-riiifth — I am ending up today a year of 
service in the pulpit. Next year (I pray) will be a better one. 
I cannot realize that in less than three months I will be 66. But 
I have no fear. I know that God is my guide. He will care for 
me so far as physical comfort goes. I have but very little prop- 
erty, but that little, God will make enough for me. I have very 
much physical vigor left, though I have but one eye, and half an 
ear. 

1908— Age 65 

January first — I am planning to celebrate the semi-centen- 
nial of my union with the church in Charleston in February. 
Also to celebrate in some suitable way, the Centennial of Fath- 
er's birth in August next. 

JauKCiry fourth — The death of Mrs. Rosa Clarke, a warm 
personal friend, and a zealous and faithful matron, distresses us 
all greatly. The funeral services were held in our memorial 
chapel and were touching in the extreme. 

January twetity-sixth — We have been carrying on the meet- 
ing for just eight days. Dr. Flynn came Tuesday night. He 
is a spiritual preacher, calm in manner, but exceedingly in ear- 
nest. He is leading us all to a higher spiritual life. Sixteen of 
the pupils of the Orphanage united with us this morning. The 
congregations have been fine throughout the meeting. 

January thirtieth — Well, the dear Lord gave us a good 
meeting. Dr. Flynn did his best, preaching ten days. From 
first to last the congregations were full. Last night the house 
was crowded. Twenty four were added to the church — from 
college, orphanage, graded school ... In my study of my own 
heart after the revival, I have found that there is a deep and 
abiding love for my Lord Jesus, passing my every power of ex- 
pression. Indeed I cling more and more to Him as our "life 
from the dead." I do not preach much about the Holy Spirit 
for I believe that the Holy Spirit puts it in my heart to make 
my glorious Saviour, the Sun in the heavens of my preaching. 
I feel that I do more than know about Jesus — I know Him ! What 
a wealth of happiness there is in the very thought of it! 

February — Our heavenly father gave me within a few dol- 



■ mi 

II 



392 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

lars of the amount that I asked for for February. I asked for 
$3,000. He gave me $2950, which is $600.00 more than last 
year. Now dear Lord, give me, please, $2,000 for February or 
as near it as possible. If I receive this sum in February, it will 
lighten the load wonderfully. Still, dear Master, these are thy 
children, and I am thy servant. Do the good thing for me. 

February eleventh — I certainly had a delightful trip to Chi- 
cora College, Greenville. The occasion was to deliver an ad- 
dress before the united student body of Furman University, 
Greenville Female College, and Chicora College. Many, indeed, 
were the kind words spoken and very gratifying the attention. 
I preached also in the morning in Palm Church (3rd) of which 
Dr. Byrd was acting pastor. All of the people came up to give 
me thanks for the sermon. It makes one feel good to get away 
from home, occasionally. I preached for forty five minutes 
before the students. Chicora is a noble school and right well 
,»|i is the work going on. 

IH • February fifteenth — I have had a busy morning doing noth- 

■fl ing — not least of my experiences the visit to my old college where 

^* I found the Greek and Latin Room just where it was fifty years 

ago! What a place Charleston is for traditions. The Museum 
is growing nobly. I spent a half hour among the tombs at the 
old Second church cemetery where Bro. Sam and my step-mother 
are buried. Father and "old" Dr. Smyth were born in 1808 — a 
hundred years ago — within ten days of each other. I call him 
old but he died at just the age I am today and will not call my- 
flll self "old". Alas, other people do! . . . .All of Sunday I was as 

busy as possible. Of course I had to enjoy the society of dear 
old friend Gus, and his interesting wife who was a granddaugh- 
ter of Langdon Cheves, and Mr. and Mrs. Bennett (his daugh- 
ter) were exceedingly interesting. In the morning I preach- 
ed at the second church to a large congregation. Met Bob Sea- 
brook — Josh Lock wood and Mary Mikell (Robertson) and a doz- 
en other friends of my childhood — and there were abundant kind 
words. Also, I spoke at four at the Second Church S. S. and 
rushed off at four-thirty to the First Church S. S. and after 
all these, to the Y. M. C. A. at all of which I tried to help the 
cause. 

February twentieth — The first Episcopal service will be held 
in town at the A. R. P. church next sabbath afternoon. 



« 



February twenty-fourth — I had a fine congregation this A. 
M., 361 at S. S. — 450-500 at church. Received three by letter and 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 393 

one (Fernando Rios of Cuba) on examination. The church is 
on rising ground. 

March — I enter upon the month with thanksgiving, God 
gave me within a few dollars of the $2,000 I asked for and fully 
six hundred more than last month. I am praying for $2,500.00 
for March. It will be a very hard task to secure that goodly 
sum but I trust and pray . Lord guide and help me . . . My heart 
is interested in preaching and church work, more than ever. 
Moreover God is blessing the work. I had nearly four hun- 
dred at Sabbath school today. My prayer meeting is greatly 
improved. The church is developing financially. They are now 
paying me a salary of $1,000 and everything seems to be doing 
better. But I am now sixty six within fifteen days. And men 
of my age are dying all around me. 

March fifteenth — We had this morning in the Orphans' 
chapel the largest gathering for religious worship that was ever 
held in Clinton. All the churches were closed and after sabbath 
school we all gathered into one. There were about 1100 per- 
sons seated. Dr. A. C. Dixon of Chicago preached an excellent 
sermon. The meeting is to continue through the week . . . This 
is my 66th birthday. It makes me very serious when I think 
how swiftly I approach the time of old age. I do not fear death. 
My certain trust is in the unfailing right hand of my dear Lord. 
I do not know about the eternal life but I believe! And to my 
Lord Jesus be the glory. I am not, however, planning or pre- 
paring for death. Per contra for a vigorous, useful active life. 
I shall fight clean down to the end against every physical ail- 
ment, and shall scheme that every day shall be one of vigor and 
activity. I just decline to be anything else than a blessing to 
the world. It is very true that I must lay aside some of the 
work I do but it shall be mine to see that others who take it up, 
move off on right lines and do it better than I. 

March twenty-ninth — I had a splendid congregation today. 
Two additional members. Over 400 actually present at Sunday 
School. Interesting services. A new class organized. Several 
new books added to the library. I am hoping for a straight for- 
ward and progressive movement. When I realize that I have 
been here 44 years and note what fine progress is being made, 
I cannot help ask myself the question — what is old age? I am 
a young man yet. 

April — My prayer, O Lord, is for $2,000 this month. Thou 
canst give it but I admit that the panic, the crisis, my poor faith, 
everything is against our getting. 



nir 



I 



394 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

April eleventh — I received another ''anonymous" letter last 
eve from "an officer of the Presbyterian Church," from the same 
hand as before, asking me to take my orphan children over to 
their chapel and to let the congregation alone as they were be- 
ing crowded out. I hardly think I will do anything just at pres- 
ent about it. Although I suspect the authorship I don't think 
it worth while noticing; for that very reason. 

April tivelfth — A splendid congregation today. 5-600 pres- 
ent. Over 400 at Sunday School. ^ Eight babies baptized. 

April nineteenth — Easter Sunday — we had a church full of 
people today. I preached a sermon to please God today. I don't 
know whether I pleased God or not but my heart was full. 

April tiventy-fifth — These are fearful times, financially. I 
do not see any prospect for betterment until the cotton-mills be- 
gin to sell their out-put. At present they are in a distressed 
condition. 

May tiventy- seventh — In one week we have had five funeral 
services. Today it was a young man from the country. Yes- 
terday it was Rev. Clark Jennings' brother from Reedville to be 
laid by the side of his mother and three brothers. Oh! the pre- 
cious dead ! 

It hurts me to think that for more than a year I have re- 
ceived no large gift for the Orphanage. 

May thirty-first — Today I will preach my 44th anniversary 
sermon ... I earnestly prayed and labored for $1500.00 and I 
got just exactly that. I wish I had faith to believe that I could 
get $2000 in June but I fear my faith is not sufficient. I will 
pray for $2,000 but confidently expect $1500.00. I am sitting 
daily to Mr. Montell for my portrait. I pity the fellows who 
have to go through that experience often. 

June tiventy-sixth — God is dealing kindly with me and is 
giving me the $2000. It is simply wonderful. I had no hope of 
getting this sum. It has just come streaming in. 

June twenty-eighth — I thank God for the $2000 in June for 
the Orphanage. He hath heard my prayer. Last season the 
June receipts were $1,846. To my heavenly father I give praise 
for the successes of this month. 

July — I have had some very heavy bills to pay for five cars 
of coal but I am praying for $2,000 in July and if I get it my 
expectation is to enter August in good shape. 



W| 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 395 

July thirteenth — Just as a sample of the way I "rest" this 
summer, I give this day's work. Rose at six A. M. and read the 
SS in Greek to 7 A. M. when I went to the Assembly Hall and 
concluded the morning service for the orphans. I breakfasted 
on an egg, a biscuit and a cup of coffee. Studied to 10, went to 
church and conducted Sunday School, held a session meeting, 
examined and received a member, preached on "There is one 
God". Dined at one thirty, simply, and studied to 2 :45, when 1 
walked a mile to the Second church, opened the Sabbath school 
with prayer. At 3:45 I preached a half hour sermon, walked 
back to the orphans chapel and preached there at five. At 6 P. 
M. I visited a family of orphans, studied my sermon for the night, 
supped on light-bread and cold tea and preached at the first 
church at 8:30. Our electric lights were on for the first time. 
That does well for a 66 year old boy. 

July teivnty-sixth — The dear Lord has sent me the amount I 
asked for this month and I have good reason to be grateful. 

July twenty-eighth — On Sunday last I preached in all three 
of the Presbyterian churches in Clinton. 

August sixteenth — On my return from the River I find 
States and Laura here and have enjoyed their visit very much. 
States is now a D.D. 

August sixteenth — In looking over some of my old journals 
today, I have been constrained to confess that my river of life 
has flowed through narrow channels and shallow but I also rea- 
lize that I have worked up to the measure of my ability. In my 
latter day experience I am realizing that though I am far more 
capable of doing good pulpit work, than once, yet that my voice 
is too familiar and the people listen through duty and not through 
desire. It is true that we are having some fearfully hot weather 
and that may account for a sluggish and indifferent congrega- 
tion but I realize that they are not enthusiastic and that they 
gladly hear others. **I must decrease" is also self evident. Never- 
theless, I shall try so to live that each day will add something 
to the sum of human happiness and that some soul may glorify 
God because he sent me into the world. 

September — The last week of August was one of great anx- 
iety. It was the week of the great storm. The freshet at River- 
side was fearfully destructive. Afy beautiful little boat and boat 
house are gone. Worse than that, our mill property at Mus- 
grove is a wreck. The county bridge is gone. Even the main 
bed is changed. The Orphanage loss is fully $1200.00. Worse 



396 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

still, our beautiful river banks are devastated. Thousands of 
trees along the banks are prostrate, threatening sickness. I 
went out to Riverside on Friday and I find all safe at the cot- 
tage and the well is a success. I am very glad of that. Of 
course the river is still there. 

September tiventieth — Oh! how I do love the church. It is 
a joy to prepare sermons and to preach sermons. It is a joy 
to study out and work toward the solution of parish problems. 
I love the people. I love the work. But in pastoral work I am 
a failure. My mind is stronger than my body. The things I 
would, I do not. 

September thirtieth — Well, I close the month with a psalm 
of praise. God gave me every cent I asked for and more. 

October fourth — I had 425 at S. S. and about 500 at church. 
I also conducted the communion. At two I spoke to the Mission 
Band in the College Chapel — and at four P.M. in Carolina Me- 
morial. 

October sixth — Tonight I give my first lecture with the 
stereopticon — topic, Japan, 52 views. I take a pleasure in it 
because I will have good lights — electric. Dear old Clinton! The 
little city is putting on airs at last. 

October ten.th — I have put in a great deal of work on the 
Museum lately and am getting it right nicely arranged. It is 
far ahead of what it was over a year ago, in systematic arrange- 
ment. In that time we have added only about 150 new speci- 
mens but the display of old specimens is much improved. 

October eighteenth — Allie Quarles, who left Clinton 23 years 
ago is with us on a short visit. 

October thirty- first — The Lord gave me the money that I 
asked from him for November and I praise his name. I went 
round to the Clinton mills and started their great engine with 
prayer. This is the fourth time I have done this for them. 

November first — I am asking the Lord for $3,000 for this 
month. May he grant it to me. 

November ei(/lith — I am dreadfully behind financially and 
am worried physically and disgruntled by siH>' orders of weak- 
minded town officials, l)ul I had a splendid congregation and 
God helped me preach so that I had fervor and energy and suc- 
cess. What a fine church that is anyway. I have much to make 
my heart glad. 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 397 

November twenty-ninth — Well, the dear Master has grant- 
ed my prayer. He has given me $3100.00 and I have yet one 
more mail to hear from. He is on my side, of what shall I be 
afraid? 

November thirtieth — God gave me $3300.00 this month. I 
am glad and my heart rejoices. 

December seventh — I preached yesterday three times. My 
morning audience crowded the church and overflowed into the 
audience room of the Sunday School. ... I prayed God to give 
me $6200 this month but today I received nothing. Oh, Lord 
forsake us not and give me wisdom to do just the right thing 
to secure the necessary funds. 

1909— Age 66 

Lord Jesus, be with thy servant this 1909. Make this for 
me a year of thy right hand. Trustfully I place my hand in 
thine. I am growing old, but I am also growing strong. My 
eyes are dim but they pierce the veil of sense and see Thee as 
Redeemer and friend. My poor ears will not hear the soft 
words of loving comrads, but they hear thy still small voice. 
Thou art saying to me — "gird thee for the work" — and blessed 
Jesus, here am I, ready to run "in the way of thy command- 
ments." 

January sixteenth — Thirty years ago this day my darling 
Mary was translated. I am sure that she has waited for my 
coming and that she and I will be together for all eternity. 

January twenty-seventh — God, in His infinite goodness has 
answered His servant's prayer and has given me the $3,000 I 
prayed for for this month. It fills my heart with joy, and 
comforts me to know that He surely answereth prayer. This 
morning there did not seem to be the least hope of raising this 
money. 

February first — The services yesterday were all poorly at- 
tended, owing to the very severe cold, thermometer down to 
fourteen degrees. The night service had only fifty out. But I 
preached three times, conducted two other services and two ses- 
sional meetings, receiving four members. 

February seventh — This morning I had 5-600 at morning 
service — received two members, baptized one little child — had 
freedom in delivery. Well pleased with myself (ahem I) The 
church looked prosperous. I have arranged for Dr. Black's meet- 



11 



398 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ing. It will be March 7th. I will prelude it with several days 
service. Why should I be crazy about resignation when the 
church is in such good condition? I am doing regular pastoral 
visiting. 

February eleventh — I received $1800.00 from the Pelham 
legacy and have it already bearing 57^ interest. I lack only 
$1,000 of having $100,000. When I reflect upon the anxiety of 
the earlier days of my ministry and compare it with the great- 
ness of the present, there is a sweet content in the thought that 
my God has been with me. He has made even my enemies to 
be at peace with me. 

Fehrimry — I never was more encouraged in church work, 
than at present. We will certainly reach 500 in membership 
soon. I am planning then to divide the orphans into a mission 
of their own, under the care of the first church. 

March eighth — My brother-in-law, Jim Dillard, last sur- 
vivor of my darling's brothers and sisters, died last night and 
was buried this afternoon. So break the links, one by one. The 
last is gone. 

March fourteenth — I have just received Robert Hardy's 
"Seven Days" — only seven days to live. I am asking, what shall 
I do effectively for the Lord in the next seven years. Tomor- 
row is my 67th birthday. I have been wanting to be an active 
pastor in my church until my 50th pastoral years ends — May 
28th, 1914, five years more. But in the meanwhile I am get- 
ting ready to retire at any moment. 

March thirty-first — God, in infinite loving kindness, an- 
swered my prayers. I asked for $1550. He gave me $1600 and 
in such a way as to enable me to see clearly that His hand was 
in it and to know that He answered my prayer. 

Avril eleventh — My dear daughter Florence's birthday — 
these forty three years ago. God bless thee and keep thee many 
years to come. 

April twenty-fourth — Our children gave an entertainment 
for the Confederate Monument on last P^riday night and raised 
$50.00 for the same. The town was enthusiastic over it and it 
certainly was good. 

M(i}i Hixth — Sitting here in 82 Argyle Hotel, Charleston, my 
meditations are of the olden time. Of course this city has chang- 
ed greatly since then, but what a number of the old time lead- 
ing buildings of *48 are still here. At least a score of ancient 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 399 

churches and literally thousands of other buidings. But the peo- 
ple are of the sort that say "You knew my father, or grand- 
father" or "I met you at Clinton?" As for those that say I 
knew you at Carroll's school or Old Flynn's Church ; or at Col- 
lege — Alas, where are they? One man said to me **I hope you will 
live five years longer." When I replied "I hope to live twenty- 
five," he laughed. Well, God's sons and daughters never die . . . 
I love the sea. I love the sky. I love the thought of eternity. 
Perhaps my love for children springs from the thought that 
their young lives belong to God's future. I never tire of look- 
ing at the boundless horizon. Thomas wanted to know why the 
ocean humped up in the middle and was surprised to find that 
he had discovered that the world was round. 

March seventh — Today has been a "memory" verse. My 
trip carried me to old familiar scenes heavy with memories. I 
must needs walk the Battery. Soon I will be a memory. But the 
great pleasure place of Charleston, the spot, green with live oaks, 
with myrtles, with palmettos, and rich in monuments and tro- 
phies, is to grow greater and greater. Once Oyster Point ; then 
Oyster Point gardens, now the Battery — , when the vast projected 
improvements are completed, it will be a perennial blessing, a 
hundred years hence, far more beautiful and greater than to- 
day. I visited the Charleston College and library — scenes of my 
boyhood days and chatted with the College youths I found about 
the buildings ... On the whole, I am well pleased with this 
trip to the city. It is a success in every respect. I will preach 
the preparatory sermon tonight at the old Second Church, the 
Centennial communion being on Sunday. After which we will 
take the night train to Columbia. 

May eleventh — This day. May 11th, 1909 was an epoch in 
the history of the Thornwell Orphanage. The teachers and pu- 
pils were organized into a church. The services were held on 
Tuesday night. Dr. Law presiding. One hundred and sixty three 
members were enrolled. The name of Thornwell Memorial was 
selected. So, another of my long cherished plans has been car- 
ried out. The First Church retains 300 members. For the 
present, no change will be made in hours of worship, until our 
sabbath school is organized. The church school will be fearfully 
depleted and they will have to work. It will take wisdom now 
to guide this ship aright. 

May twenty-eighth — Forty-five years ago, this day, I was 
ordained to the gospel ministry and made pastor over the three 
little churches of Clinton, Shady Grove and Duncan's Creek, 73 



400 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

souls in all! The churches organized out of the Clinton Church 
alone are Clinton First, 333 members ; Thornwell Memorial, 163 ; 
Rockbridge 23; Clinton Second 12; and Sloan's Chapel, (color- 
ed) about 25. They are all well located and eventually will 
grow. I propose giving five more years of good work to the 
Clinton First Church, if God will, before I lay down the pas- 
torate. I would prefer making the change now to the Thorn- 
well Memorial but whatever is for the good of the cause, I will 
obediently do. 

June third — I have just had a call from the Committee ap- 
pointed to raise funds for the support of a Foreign Missionary, 
to tell me that they have succeeded! I thank God for that. To 
this end have I preached for many years, and now my heart is 
glad! How wonderfully God has blessed my plans for His honor 
and glory. One by one. He answers my prayers, giving me good 
success in my various efforts for this church. Specially for the 
past few years have the trees of faith and patience budded and 
borne fruit. My anxiety now is for wisdom and grace to plan 
aright. When I first came to this town, determining to make it 
my home it was in my heart to show that a country pastor in a 
little village church could make it a tower of strength and could 
have all the honor that God thought best for him. This purpose 
is the key to my life and I believe that I have shown it to be 
true. I am satisfied. God has dealt bountifully with me and I 
am glad. 

June tenth — There was a congregational meeting of the 
Thornwell Memorial Church this evening at which Mr. Scruggs 
and Mr. Scott were elected elders and Mr. Kilgore and Mr. Bris- 
sesden were made deacons. I was elected Pastor and a subscrip- 
tion of $250.00 raised for pastoral support and a call given to 
me to become Pastor. They appointed a committee to visit the 
Board of Trustees and ask for a salary to be made up by them, 
sufficient for my support. None of this was worked up by me 
but it comes as a surprise. I simply put the matter in God's 
hands and I ask His guidance. The officers elect will be ordain- 
ed next Sunday. 

June fifteenth — The Board of Trustees met yesterday and 
made excellent arrangements for a President's salary which I 
gratefully appreciate and that most heartily. They want me to 
have a $1200.00 salary. The Orphan's church has modified its 
call in such a way that I can serve them as heretofore, or for 
what part of my time as can be arranged for by the First 
Church. I am still just following the divine lead and He is lead- 
ing me into a safe place. 



AGE SIXTY-THREE— 1906 401 

June thirtieth — I married Mattie Hipp and Brother G. W. 
Cunningham, Ph.D., in our chapel (Thornwell Memorial) today. 
This is the first event of the kind and the first wedding of any 
member of the Thornwell Church. 

July ninth — I see I have been reelected Chaplain of the 
South Carolina Press Association. I am glad, also they have 
adopted a rule to change officers after two more terms of of- 
fice. This will soon let me out. 

July eleventh — My sermon today was a John Calvin Me- 
morial discourse. All the world is at it. Why not I? A fine 
congregation for the good old summer time. A congregational 
meeting decided by a divided vote to authorize the pastoral re- 
lation betwixt myself and the Thornwell Memorial. Ferd called 
to urge me to let it pass and take no action. 

July twenty-third — Two items of mighty fine news came to 
me by yesterday's mail. One was that Will and Mr. Bailey 
agree to meet Mrs. Baker's salary as deaconess at the Clinton 
Mills. This makes our payments to Pastor and deaconess amount 
for that mill to $355 and the church $120.00. The other item 
was that Thornwell had sold the Taylor-Trotwood Magazine and 
will go back into the ministry. I hope this is true and I say — 
thank God. 

July twenty-fourth — Well, I made the statement this morn- 
ing to the Sabbath School of the division of the school after Sept- 
ember first. Also, I made the statement I outlined a few pages 
back in regard to my pastoral work. The die is cast. The 
church has the matter now in its own hands. My prayer is that 
the Lord would direct the whole matter to a just and happy issue. 
My natural man is willing to lay down the double work to take 
up only the Orphanage work. My spiritual man bids me to look 
on. Lead, O Lord, I follow. 

August sixth — Sitting here by the window of my little room 
in Riverside Cottage my minds fills up with many plans for the 
future, bearing upon all departments of the great work the dear 
Lord has committed to my keeping. I am altogether unwilling 
to believe that I am old or that there is to be any termination 
to my usefulness and so I am pressing right on to larger endea- 
vor. I have carried out so many of my proposals that I have 
gotten firmly persuaded with David "The Lord is on my side!" 
And in his strength I shall go on to four score years and ten, 
which would give me a life time still before me. 

August eighth — A fine congregation and a fairly satisfac- 



402 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

tory sermon this morning. I am now nearly through with my va- 
cation and on the first Sabbath of September will begin my three 
daily services and two sabbath schools. I am much pleased also 
with our Mission work. With a foreign and a home missionary, 
both, to think of my church makes me glad. I earnestly pray 
that the Second Church may develop into a good organization. 
Clinton now has four Presbyterian churches. This counts the 
A. R. P. folks in — but they are alright. 

September seventh — Just four weeks ago this day, I was 
knocked down in the street, Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, 
and run over by a surrey with four people in it. With a broken 
shoulder, a lacerated side, a bleeding throat and a dozen minor 
wounds, lying on the pavement of a strange city, one would look 
for no comfort, yet comfort there was. Strangers surrounded 
the ambulance and got me to the Emergency hospital in an un- 
conscious condition. There I spent two wretched days and nights 
but one morning, opening my eyes, I found Dillard standing by 
my side. It was as though I had seen an angel from heaven. 
His practiced eye soon saw my needs and got me into good shape 
and into a private room and gave me perfect attendance. Nurses, 
orderlies, doctors all made the days and nights more comfort- 
able. I spent eight days in the hospital and was then brought 
home. Florence and Mollie had reached Washington the next 
day after Dillard, and 0, how sweet their ministrations were. 
Nobody ever had better children than God has given me. They 
brought me safe home. Home! Home! Day by day, with lov- 
ing care far beyond my dreams my dear children and the noble 
people of Clinton have watched over me, nursed me, fed me, min- 
istered to me, sent me loving messages. My children from far 
and near and friends I never heard of have sent the tenderest 
of messages. I have had the pleasure of seeing my dear brother 
and sisters Henry and Mamie Sperry, Charles and Bessie Little 
and all their children. So I have been brought to this day with 
an arm fast bound to my side. I am sitting on my front piazza 
and in the early morning for the first time, I will go over the 
morning prayer. I will go over to Florence's to dinner. I feel 
the thrill of returning health. Thank God, I have not mur- 
mured nor complained. The dear Lord has been with me. With 
more pains than in all my lifetime before, I have yet felt how 
good and merciful He is. It was worth it all to have such show- 
ers of blessings. My broken collar bone still pains me and I 
write with difficulty but I am getting to my work again. 

September ( if/hth — On Sunday last I went over to the Thorn- 
well Memorial to be present at the organization of the Orphan- 



AGE SIXTY.THREE— 1906 408 

age Sabbath School. Our first church Sunday School was also 
reorganized on the same day. The combined schools made a 
showing of 450 pupils, the largest ever. 

September sixteenth — As to Dillard, my doctor, he is an 
angel of mercy. My children have been with me daily. Florence 
hovered over me all this week of misery. And the dear Clinton 
people have shown me great love. For four weeks every moment 
brought pains. A cough racked me terribly. A sneeze was like 
knives sawing through me. But, still, I had a good time — a hap- 
py time because of the outpouring of love and the tender mercy 
of God. 

September twenty-first — Thornwell writes that he is in At- 
lanta working for the Agnes Scott Endowment. 

September tic eyity- fourth — I am distressed greatly at the 
poor opening of the college, the worst ever .... My cold still 
hangs on, but thanks to tenderest care at home and Dillard's 
devotion, I am improving steadily. This afternoon I am to be 
installed pastor of the Thornwell Memorial Church. This is the 
last link of the chain, devised so long ago by me, the idea being 
complete separation between the First Church and the Orphan- 
age — with a view to loosing me from the pastorate of the former. 
My accident in Washington has hindered my resignation, show- 
ing as it did the tenderness of the people for me. But I am now 
so sorely afflicted with deafness, which has been greatly in- 
creased by the accident, that I feel incompetent to do pastoral 
work and unless there is improvement, my duty to resign will 
be so clear, that there will be absolutely no alternative. I am 
patient under the stroke, for though I may live many years and 
may have this great burden to bear, yet I am looking forward 
to much good work here, and perfect hearing in the land of 
everlasting light. Dillard tells me that he will take off the ban- 
dages, next Tuesday. 

September thirtieth — God gave us the magnificent sum of 
$2250. I had asked for only $2,000! Last year, we closed Sep- 
tember 30th, $832 in debt. We close today with $1025 in the 
treasury! It is best to trust in a prayer-hearing God. 

October third — On Sunday I conducted the morning wor- 
ship at the Orphans' Assembly room; I preached at 11 A. M. 
and conducted the communion ; at four I again conducted 
the communion; I attended both Sabbath Schools; I moderated 
three meetings of session and received ten members and con- 
ducted the baptism service. I am proud of my day's work. 



404 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

October ninth — Elliott came with her buggy and we made 
seven visits to as many families of the congregation. 

October fourteenth — I'm a perfect fake so far as pastoral 
visiting goes. I cannot hear the people unless they speak up, 
moreover I have to do all the talking — and still further I find all 
this a great drawback to me. The church just must give me an 
assistant or accept my resignation. I have succeeded in getting 
an assistant at the Orphanage and that ought to be argument 
enough to the church that I need help. I want to live and be at 
work for at least ten years more if not twenty and to do this I 
must not overdo the matter ... I am praying now 

a — for $2200 for this month's support, 

b — for success for Bennett in securing the Florida cottage, 

c — for a farmer (just the right one, Lord), 

d — for a large gift to the endowment, 

e — for some one to give $2,000 for this Farmer's Lodge. 
This is a great deal to ask for but dear Master, I see no way out 
unless thou wilt do this thing for me. 

October sixteenth — On this late Saturday eve I just want to 
thank God for all He has done for me from my youth up. I 
am growing old. I am blind, with cataract in one eye and with 
a very near sighted mate to it. I am deaf in one ear and nearly 
so in the other. I am a constant sufferer with catarrh and now 
have only one serviceable arm. Moreover, I am forever grunt- 
ing and groaning about my excessive labors. But God has led 
me on. He hasn't thrown me aside as drift wood. I am pas- 
tor of two city churches. I am busy pushing on this great Or- 
phanage. My journals will show a thousand anxieties about each 
new project, but every one has come about as I planned. I have 
been blessed beyond measure. It is wonderful, the career of this 
poor man. Perhaps if I had prayed more for myself, my health 
would have been better but I would not have received so great 
blessing in my work. So let me be content — and never murmur. 
Thank God for what He has put me to do! Thank God for the 
thousands of answered prayers. 

October twenty-seventh — Now turn back to the 14th and 
hear the prayers offered then : 

a — up to date God has given me $2350 for support. It will 
surely go $150 more. 

b — Bennett is getting right along with the Florida cottage — 
the Presbyteries have endorsed it. 

c — I am on the track of a farmer. 



AGE SIXTY-THREE— 1906 405 

d — Unexpectedly I have partly answered this prayer my- 
self. But I expect more, from whom I cannot say. 

e — Mrs. Hollings worth writes offering to give $2,000 to fin- 
ish the Farmer's cottage for boys. 

Glory to God in the Highest! He hears prayers. 

November fhirteevth — I am seated on the S. A. L. train be- 
tween Atlanta and Birmingham, on my way to Cedartown, Ga. 
Thornwell met me at the Atlanta depot last night. He had 
brought his two children, John and Fred with him. John is a fine 
little fellow. Fred has had a hard life of it so far. I enjoyed 
the few hours chat with Thornwell. I had, after the chat, a very 
bad night of it. As for Atlanta, it is a great and growing city, 
but its streets are dangerous. I thank God I live in Clinton. 

November fourteenth — The Board voted me $100 per month 
salary last June to begin first of July. I am taking this and 
placing it to the President's salary and pension fund. I will 
place the interest to the principal till it reaches $10,000 and will 
then resign the church and retire on a pension ! Which will be 
the interest of that fund — amounting to $50.00 to $60.00 a month 
and will be enough. 

November twenty-eighth — At the Thornwell 280 pupils; at 
the Clinton Second 118 pupils in Sabbath School, totaling 580. 
That seems something like. 

November twenty-ninth — Thornwell is working hard for 
Agnes Scott to raise that great sum. They are having a "whirl 
wind" campaign and I see by the papers that they expect to get 
the whole thing accomplished by tonight or tomorrow night. It 
is a great thing that he is doing. I am earnestly praying success 
for him. 

November thirtieth — What a different thing travelling these 
days is over what it used to be. Here I am comfortably seated in 
my brother-in-law's home in Nashville. I went to sleep in Atlan- 
ta. I woke up in the suburbs of Nashville and got dressed just in 
time to get out of the car. The motion was pleasant, the sleep 
was refreshing. I enjoyed it greatly. Nashville was all in a fog 
when I reached it. Sarah's wedding is to take place tonight. 
This is my third marriage ceremonv in this city and in every 
case I was assisted by someone else. 

December — I have "united in the holy bonds" over a thou- 
sand couples. But last night I had to add some special touches, 
"as usual". I received many compliments for "the beautiful 



406 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

ceremony." I am used to that and judge by the newspaper reports 
that it was ''impressive", but they say that of all. I found this 
A. M. that it was 11 o'clock (eastern time) when I rose from the 
breakfast table. Awful. I spent the day with Charles and Bessie 
Little. It was literally the day. I had risen late and one of my 
attendants at my marriage 44 years ago came to see me and, 
at Bessie's, Herbert and Sid Brooks paid me a visit. I have 
seen a good deal of my kine but not much of Nashville. This 
city is even smokier than ever. 

December third — Well, I am in Atlanta. I had a real nice 
time of it, travelling in a comfortable sleeper last night and 
finding myself in Thornwell's hands here in Atlanta. I took 
a delightful ride over the city this morning but how these peo- 
ple keep from being killed every day is more than I understand. 
The ride away out on Peachtree and the new addition on that 
side of the city were highly interesting. Beatiful homes and 
well kept lawns abounded, and what splendid streets! 

December tiventy fifth — A poor old fellow came in just now 
and asked for help. I gave him a dollar. He whispered in my 
ear, "You are a Christian". He was judging by that dollar. 

December thirtieth — I am closing up the year of receipts 
with $1,000 more for December of last year. I am grateful to 
God, above measure. And yet people say God does not answer 
prayer. Well, he does not answer prayer for prolongation of life 
as a rule, though He has, for some good reason, I doubt not, 
done so in my case, but there is an explanation of that, I think 
in the fact that life may be the worst thing for us. 

December thirty-first — Thank God! My prayers are heard. 
I received $6,550 during December. We will begin January with 
a goodly sum in the treasury. 



CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO 

1910— Age 67 

January seventh — I am much pleased to see by this day's 
Georgian that Thornwell has become an editor of the Presby- 
terian of the South. He will have his heart's desire of a home 
in Atlanta. I pray for his success and that through him the good 
cause may go straight on. I have this day been comforted and 
strengthened by the thought that God is with me and will not 
let me suffer any evil more than I can bear. He is ever by my 
side and I believe in him and love him. 

January fourteenth — I am not well these days but I am 
glad of heart. My life has been ever under divine protection. 
Oh, it is a great thing to know God and I know him. 

Jamuary sixteenth — Last week brought our receipts for the 
Orphanage up to $2,000. The month is half gone. This month 
has been a discouraging one in many respects, but if we count 
discouragements — let us trust the harder. Dr. and Mrs. Fulton 
leave us today for Japan. They have been with us over a year. 
We shall miss them greatly. 

January twenty-ninth — I am thinking of P. E. Bishop's say- 
ing in a Los Angeles sermon a few days since that when the min- 
ister is thirty they idolize him; at forty they criticize him; at 
fifty they ostracize him, and at sixty they oslerize him. In two 
years I'll be 70. I wonder if I was dead eight years ago and 
did not know it. 

February tenth — When I think of what Presbyterianism is 
doing here, I am satisfied. Here is a list of visible results: 

1. The First Church with a $25,000 building, with fine lots 
for a parsonage and extensive w^ork, with a Sexton's Home and 
a Cemetery. 

2. The Presbyterian College with a noble Central building, 
three brick and four frame residences — thirty acres of land and 
a small endowment — totaling $100,000. 

3. The Thornwell Orphanage with $300,000 worth of prop- 
erty and on it the Thornwell Mem.orial Church with 175 mem- 
bers. 

407 



408 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

4. The Second Church, Rev. J. F. Jacobs pastor, a good Sab- 
bath School and $1,000 building. 

5. The Lydia Chapel, Rev. J. B. Branch, preacher. 
And I might add 

6. The A. R. Presbyterian Church with Rev. Mr. Hooten, 
pastor, and with two hundred members. 

February seventeenth — The Lord marvelously answered one 
of my prayers yesterday, bringing to us a gift of $300.00 not only 
from the man I asked him to move and for the very sum I asked, 
but at the very time of the prayer. Incidentally, this answer to 
prayer will bring the answer to yet another for it will result in 
giving me this month three sums of money for which I petitioned 
our bountiful Benefactor. 

February eighteenth — I feel that the future has little prom- 
ise of better health in store. I am always more or less ailing but I 
am going to try, nevertheless. I have set my heart to be vigorous, 
to take more exercise, to visit freely, not to force myself beyond 
measure, but to do everything else that comes my way. I will 
write new sermons, study hard, read much and keep everybody 
about me busy. At present, I am enjoying every day I live. I 
have enjoyed even the rest my accident gave me and I have en- 
joyed the days I had the grippe. Of course, there were excep- 
tions, but I mean the general drift was that way. Our little city 
of Clinton is developing rapidly. Ten new brick stores and many 
dwellings are to go up this summer. The town has been survey- 
ed for sewerage and that will go in. We have noble water and 
electric light works and fine telephone system; the wires of this 
latter have just given way to cables. There is talk of a trolley 
to Greenville. The C. C. and 0. may come this way. How 
little I dreamed in the old time when I was fighting to the death 
for Clinton that it could ever become so handsome a place. We 
now have opened many new streets and improved old ones. There 
are many to work for Clinton. Three weekly newspapers; a week- 
ly leaflet; two Monthlies; two bulletins tell its praises. I 
brought the first case of type to Clinton in 1866 and now I have 
in hand Our Monthly, the Thornwell Messenger, the Clinton Pres- 
byterian News, the Orphan Work! Oh, God, I give thee thanks 
for thy goodness to me. I am happy in thy love for me for it 
is great. And, Lord, I can truly say "I love thee, Lord for that 
thou hast heard my prayer and my supph'cation. Oh. that it 
may be mine to behold thy face forever! 

March sixth — I certainly have had a strenuous day today. 



] 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 409 

I conducted the morning worship, attended both Sabbath Schools, 
had three meetings of session (business) and two baptismal ser- 
vices, preached three time and administered the communion at 
the Thornwell Memorial. This was the first day for our noble 
organ. It is a fine one. We had a crowded church. 

March seventeenth — I had a very pleasant all-day visit from 
Mr. Kesler of the Thomasville Orphanage and we spent it study- 
ing the Thornwell Orphanage. It is really wonderful when I 
study it to think of the way in which the Lord has led me in this 
orphanage work — I especially note it when I think of the in- 
fluence I have had in moulding the policies of other homes. And 
that is the source of a great deal of gratifica.tion to me. I see, 
too, that my own work is not complete; that there is very much 
more work for me. 

March twentieth — A noble day of good work. Again I note 
a fine congregation. If I gave all my time to church work I 
would soon have a Sunday School of 200 ; a night congregation of 
300 ; and a prayer meeting of 100. Our morning congregation 
is now^ about 500 and fills the church. I feel ease in preaching. 
I have something to say. The people listen to me. And I leave 
the rest to God. 

March twenty -third — I look with surprise at newspaper 
paragraphs that make quite a display of Thornwell Orphanage 
advancements, when to me it seems that we ought to hope for 
greater things. One in Georgia urges the Methodists to try to do 
for their home as I do here. I place our assests as follows: 

Land (home place) $55,000 

Buildings 145,000 

Endowment 103,000 



$303,000 

But I am very anxious to do better. When we took out the 
first charter for the institution we placed our expectations at a 
half million. It is a long way to it, yet, but I am grateful for 
what God has enabled us to do and what He has done for us. 
Every year adds to the value of our grounds and our plant, e. g. 
we bought the original site for $1500.00. It is now worth $50,000. 
Some years ago we paid $1800 for 40 acres. It is now salable at 
$5000. None of the buildings could now be put up for less than 
twice what they cost us. Prices are soaring. And prospects are 
favorable for present conditions to stay where they are. 

March twentij-seventh — Easter. That was a word I never 
heard in the Old Second Church, Charleston, in my boyhood days. 



410 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

It was noticed only to be sure not to preach a sermon on the 
resurrection. Now, however? Well, this morning I preached 
to a church with every seat full and the aisles full of chairs — 
"That deceiver said while he was yet alive. After three days I 
will rise again.'* We had 600 present. There were 199 at Sunday 
School. I have had much to be grateful for, this past month 
or two in fine congregations. But I have done next to no visit- 
ing. 

March thirty-first — I close up the month today, having re- 
ceived $2,000 against $1600.00 last March. This was the sum 
I asked the Lord God and that he gave. I did not expect it. 

April sixth — The only distress of my visit to Spartanburg 
was to find how deeply in debt the College is and how serious its 
condition. The college is being involved seriously. It may be 
my duty yet to come to the front to save it. 

April tenth — On the 12th day of June, being commencement 
day — the 35th of the Thornwell Orphanage I will be 25,000 days 
old. Doubtless I will hear of it on that day. May it be for good 
to me and the world that I have lived in it. Twenty-five thou- 
sand days! How quickly they have passed! I have lived long 
upon the earth. Lord, crown the work! 

April sixteenth — I am still much worried about the college. 
There is, however, in existence a charter of the ''Clinton College 
Association". We do not own a dollar of property but we are 
the lineal successor of the old Clinton College association found- 
ed in 1872 and this association can easily enough be revived. I 
am still president of the body. I will call a meeting in July. 

April seventeenth — My prayer today is that God would spare 
my life to see that the work started here is made safe. God 
save our college! 

April twenty-first — Ferd and Dill (Jacobs and Co.) had a 
notable gathering of their 32 traveling men and others yester- 
day. In the eve they came to the Orphanage on a visit and af- 
ter taking in the institution, met at the Chapel and took up a 
Collection of $83.35 which they presented to the Orphanage, and 
it was a God-send for we needed it very much. 

April twenty -fourth — The very constant and regular attend- 
ance at my morning services makes me feel that either these 
people like my preaching or else they are just simply good church 
goers. The church is now in fine tilth for doing good work and 
I am pressing the cause forward to the best of my ability, giving 
them varied services and with much encouragement. 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 411 

May first — At the session meeting this afternoon I put it 
up to the session to decide as to my future relations to the church. 
They had much to say. That they have respect, even love for 
me, I am sure, but I do not yet see whether they would be willing 
to have me resign or whether it would be desirable. They say, 
if I left it with the church they would unanimously refuse the 
resignation but I fear that this would be their love to me for 
what I have done and not through zeal for what I am doing. If 
certain contingencies do not occur I will certainly not have more 
than one year longer. I specified these in the last church leaf- 
let. They are — an average attendance of 200 at S. S. — 200 at 
night service, 50 at prayermeeting and 27 added to the church. 
That is the least I will be contented with. Likewise the deacons 
must pay the church debt, even if I get all this. I must feel 
that the Lord approves or I can go no further. 

May ninth — We have had a very fine visit from Mrs. Hol- 
lingsworth who gave us the new cottage and her daughter, Mrs. 
Fuller Jones. Mrs. Hollingsworth is Gov. Ansel's mother in 
law. They stayed four days with us. I took Mrs. Fuller and 
the sophomore class and Molly and Etta out to Riverside and 
had a very agreeable day indeed. 

May fifteenth — I preached this morning to a very large 
congregation. Many chairs were brought in. The occasion was 
usual, but the people happened to turn out. I had a tremendous 
topic, "The infinity and eternity of God." The occasion was 
the coming of Halley's comet. The expressions of appreciation 
by many people came near turning my head but though with a 
cracking headache, God heard my prayer for an easy delivery. 

May tiventieth — I am encouraged to keep up my work at 
Clinton first, till I have completed my semi-centennial. I wish 
I could be of some service to the college but I am down and out 
from that. The present faculty would never be willing for me 
to have any hand in directing the affairs. Still I do a great deal 
from the outside. 

May tiventy-first — Halley's comet is a fake. Instead of 
spreading its tail over 120 degrees of the heavens, it seems to 
have left its tail at home. 

May twenty-seventh — This is one day in which I have not 
received a single dollar for the orphans. It is the first in many 
a long day. I cannot recall another just like it in all the three 
hundred and sixty-five. Today our expenses have been very 
heavy. But I lean on the Lord and trust in him. These are his 



412 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

children, not mine. It is with Him to say just how many little 
children he will care for. With now two months of meagre 
supplies, I am yet trusting in Him and may he do what is right 
and good and best. I am sending now for six more children. I 
always do this when supplies are short. 

May twenty-eighth — Forty-six years ago this day the Lord 
set me over this Clinton church as its pastor. Mine has been a 
quiet work in the Lord's vineyard. Nevertheless, He has given 
me great occasion for thanksgiving and has given me good suc- 
cess in the work. Noteworthy in my life-work has been: First, 
the spiritual in the development of the first church, the Thorn- 
well Memorial, Lydia Mills, Clinton Mills, Rockbridge churches 
and chapels. Second, the educational, in the growth of the Thorn- 
well Orphanage and Presbyterian College. Third, the founding 
of Our Monthly, the Thornwell Messenger etc. And there have 
been many sidelines of work. Perhaps my greatest achievement 
has been the lifting of the church Orphanage out of the sphere 
of mere charity and in making it entirely educational. For all 
this past I thank God. I am not done yet. I dedicate all my fu- 
ture to God and will still plan and advance. 

May t IV enty -ninth — Today was another model Sabbath. I 
preached to a crowded church, more than 500 present. There 
were 269 at the Thornwell Memorial School and 232 at the first 
church Sunday School, 501 total. This is the best attendance 
yet. Broke the record today. Now if we could just hold to this 
and do even better. 

June sixteenth — We enjoyed Dr. Ogden and Dr. Flynn great- 
ly. They are both fine. But on the other side, we are still be- 
hind in our receipts and worst of all, excessively anxious over 
the appearance of four or five pellagra cases among the little 
children. These are being cared for. I locate the causes given 
by good men as follows: 

First, insufficient variety of diet. This I will proceed to 
remedy at once.* 

Second, too much use of western cornmeal. All the corn 
stuffs I will cut out entirely until I can erect a good corn mill 
of our own and grind South Carolina corn. 

Third, condition of open ditches in that section of ground. 
Remedy sewerage. 



•This sugrjfestion was made by his son, Dr. J. D. Jacobs, and is believed to 
V ' first instance of the successful use of this now universally accepted 

t, . ,,y. 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 413 

I have taken all this up vigorously and am getting at it 
with all my might. For health is above everN'thing else. 

July third — The Lord gave me all I asked of Him in June 
but, alas, our expenses were so much greater than I expected 
that I am on the very verge of debt ; or worse off by $700.00 
than we were a year ago. Our expenses are too great. I am 
trying to cut them down but do not see how I can do it. Well, I 
w^as praying the Lord for $2,000 for each of the months of July 
and August and it seems to me that these gifts must come or 
we perish. 

July twentieth — Think of it, on the fourth of July with the 
admission of Arizona and New Mexico our republic numbered 
48 states and there is no more room for any more unless we take 
in outlying districts or get Canada to join us. When I was born, 
there was room for three more states on this side of the Missis- 
sippi — and only three organized on the other side. 

July twenty-sixth — The dear Lord has given me $2750 for 
the orphans up to date! A thousands dollars more than last or 
any other July. I praise His name . . . My time at Riverside 
is spent in quiet reading, writing, resting, planning. I greatly 
enjoy it. I don't have to move unless I want to ... I only re- 
ceived $8.00 today. 

July thirtieth — I closed up the books today with the marvel- 
ous summary of $3015 against $1805 of last July! I do thank 
God. He has saved us. I will be pleased if I can get $2,000 for 
August. 

August tenth — Today is the anniversary of my bad acci- 
dent a year ago and today we received a proposition from Mr. 
John J. Eagan to give $5,000 to the President's endowment 
fund on condition that $25,000 total is reached by Dec. 31st, 1910. 
I thank God. I believe it will be raised and if so it will settle the 
matter of my salary as long as I live and open a way for me to 
relieve the first Church of the incubus of a semi-pastor as soon 
as they wish it. 

AuguM twenty-sercnth — Finished up Riverside for the sea- 
son. It makes me feel home sick to think that after tonight all 
will be silent — the houses closed — the river running on and on 
but no children's voices ringing along its bank. Eleven years 
of Riverside and not an accident. Thank God I 

August twenty-eighth — I preached to a good audience, a 
sermon, thought out of an old one but a better one than the old. 



414 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

September fifteenth — I find that the inefficiency and un- 
willingness to cooperate on the part of matrons is one of the 
greatest difficulties in our orphanage work. It is so hard to 
get a set of matrons that fully and dearly love the work and feel 
that they are an integral part of it. The ''three sisters," all offi- 
cers, are a mistake. Any one of them would be a success stand- 
ing alone. I'll never be caught giving that sort of a hold again 
unless I know all parties and know that they love the work. 
Fortunately there is only one set of three here to contend with. 
And all the rest stand alone. Rebellious arid cynical workers 
are always hard to deal with, too. 

September tic enty -fifth — Dear Master, give me the $12,000 
or more that I need for the support of the Orphanage during 
October, November and December. It is a great sum but I need 
it. Dear Master, bring us in that $15,000 needed for the endow- 
ment, in order to secure Mr. Egan's gift. Even so, Lord. Help 
me in the securing of souls as here in the church. Grant this 

Lord. The church is cold. I leave it in thy hands, O Lord, 
to help me to know about an assistant in my church work. My 
heart loves the church and is inclined to fill out the 50 years of 
service, but I can not do it without help. Lord, lead me and the 
people to do the right thing. Hear me Master and help me. I 
am glad and trustful even though life is ebbing away. 

September twenty-sixth — My health is not good now and 
has not been for a long while. I thank God I can belittle my 
own ailments but they are growing beyond my control, I fear. 
My throat gave me great trouble in 1888-89, some thirty years 
ago. That was when my doctors thought I would never preach 
more and that I ought to give up my church work and devote my- 
self to the Orphanage. I recovered my health, thanks to God, and 
the.se 21 years have I been preaching since. Now, however, it 
is different. I have no youthful vigor to restore my health and 

1 ought not to do so much preaching. I may be able to do the 
work at the Thornwell Memorial but it seems to me that I am 
really robbing the First Church. I wanted to continue serving 
them till 1914, my 50th anniversary, but that is only a sentiment. 
If I give up the church I want to cut loose entirely and not have 
any co-pastor. It is not good for the church to serve two mas- 
ters. If my health improves I could serve the church to my 
fiftieth year of service but my fear is that as I increase in years 
my physical difficulties will increase. I ought to give up on 
January first, but Oh. how it hurts! 

October — I was able to close up September and found to 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 41 r> 

my surprise and delight that the Lord had given me all I asked 
for and ten dollars more. I asked for $2222. He gave me $2232. 
for which I most gratefully thank Him. My heart is glad when 
I think of how grandly He serves me. Why did I fix that singular 
sum — just because I asked Him to give me a living proof that 
His answer to my prayer was a living proof of his presence and 
not an accident. 

October — Certainly it is up hill work, all this way — in every 
department. We are making no progress whatever with the pro- 
posed endowment. I am worried by it but God has it in hand 
and I trust. 

October niyith — I am not taking any steps toward resigna- 
tion and none either towards doing my duty as a Pastor. But 
what ought I to do? Now for twenty years I have been facing 
a great fear, lest I should stay too long among these dear people. 
Yet, I had a packed house on Sunday and 200 both at S. S. and 
the night service. The only *iion in my way" is that pastoral vis- 
iting. I just cannot pull myself out to my duty in the after- 
noon. It is absolutely essential that I get out of it and if I do 
no pastoral work, how can I be a pastor? On Sunday I received 
plenty of compliments on my preaching, enough to turn a young 
man's head. I am not dead yet as a preacher. I love the work 
as all old men do but I am anxious to do more than '*lo\'e to 
preach." I want to drive the truth home to the conviction of 
sin in erring souls. I want to save men. 

October sixte&tith — A fine congregation. Thornwell inter- 
ested the people much. They gave him an ovation. 

October twenty-third — There was Presbyterian preaching 
today in the First, the Second, the Thornwell Memorial and the 
A. R. Presb\i:erian Churches, and in Lydia Presbyterian chapel. 

October twenty-seventh — According to the order of the 
Board — the treasurer paid the President (that's me) the splen- 
did sum of One Thousand Dollars for salary for 1910 and the 
President placed the same to the endowment fund and with it 
is building a cottage home (No. 2) Centennial which will be oc- 
cupied by Rev. M. 0. A. Sowers. That's a new way of letting me 
spend a thousand dollars of the interest of the Endowment to 
further what I may consider to be the best advantage of all par- 
ties. This lets loose the former carpenter's lodge for rent. . . 
I am getting a great many compliments on my preaching these 
days but what I want is souls. 

November eighteenth — We are getting nothing for the en- 



416 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

dowment. I fear we are going to fail in securing that $5,000. 
It looks so, now. Well, Bennett is certainly working hard. If the 
scheme fails, it will be an awful misfortune, but it will also be 
the Lord's will. We are making slow progress with the scheme 
of endowment anyway. We have $107,000, however, of the $250, 
000 w^e are hoping and praying for. There are $3,000 more in 
sight by January. 

November tiventy-fifth — Great news! Mrs. McCormick 
writes that she will give the $20,000 to complete the endowment 
of the Professorship guaranteed by Eagan's gift of $5,000. This 
is in direct answer to prayer. She conditions the gift on my use 
of it as long as I live. It is a real pension and is not dependent 
on my service. I do thank God with all my heart. As twelve 
hundred dollars is enough for me, I will now have to face the 
problem of service to the church. I must give it up. As soon 
as Mrs. McCormick's gift is received, I will feel honor-bound to 
ask for a co-pastor and if that is refused, to resign. Indeed, I 
told my heavenly Father that I would take such a gift, given in 
such a way, as his orders to me to do this very thing. My own 
judgment is that resignation would do better than a co-pasto- 
rate. I should then give my whole time to the Orphanage. I 
am getting too old to hold longer the control of such a great 
work. I am constrained to wonder at the way in which God has 
brought to pass every plan for the work, as I had schemed it out 
many years ago. And now what? I am at the end of all the 
plans I laid by which I could give up the pastorate of the First 
Church. It must now be a question with the ^irst Church it- 
self. So far as I am concerned, the pathway is clear. I cannot 
conscientiously promise to do work and take pay for it that I 
am physically unable to do. And yet here was my Sunday's 
work: conducted the morning worship. Assembly Hall, preached 
morning, afternoon and evening. I attended both sabbath schools 
and spoke at each. I married two couples, at home. I conducted 
the regular meeting of session. I read much, reviewed my ser- 
mon and prepared one of them. That is more than most young 
ministers do. My morning sermon was effective, as was shown 
by a large night audience "and hit a rainin.* ** 

November thirtieth — The Lord is very, very good. I told 
the dear Lord that I must have $3200.00 this month so he gave 
me $4,000. I am very happy over this success. I am hoping and 
praying every day for his blessing on all work here. It is a great 
thing to pray. God is listening and I do think that he just loves 
for ua to pray. He certainly has answered our prayers this 
month. 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 417 

December first — Dear Lord, send me please $6500.00 this 
month. 

December third — Mrs. McCormick's check for $20,000 ar- 
rived today and I have immediately written, thanking her and 
have invested $6,000 of it in Clinton city 6 per cent bonds. The 
conditions specify that I must receive the interest on this money 
as long as I live, making it really a pension for my old age and 
after that it passes to the President's salary fund. How tenderly 
I thank God for this. I judge it to be the climax of his plans for 
my good. 

December sixth — Over $30,000 has been received on the 
President's fund but of course I will not take the interest on all 
that money. My salary will be one hundred dollars a month. 

December eleventh — Last night I received a letter from Mrs. 
McCormick, asking to bestow another gift, that will reach to 
$2500.00 possibly. She wants to give all that was given by other 
parties to Gorton College. She is a great woman ! If that 
amount's received, I will use it to build a cottage for Bennett — 
as superintendent. God bless Mrs. McCormick. 

December twentieth — Fifty years ago this day I, being a lad 
of 18 summers, reported the ordinance of Secession for the 
Charleston Mercury. How time flies! The Columbia State en- 
rolled me among the worthies in its secession edition. I have 
become history. 

December twenty-fifth — My faith is not impervious to doubt 
nor my hope to distress. I am up against limitations. As a 
bird beats against its cage so I complain against this old worn out 
body. Not that it does not serve me a good time but it ought to 
do better. The soul within me is that of a sprightly lad of sixty 
eight summers. I am determined to live till eighty but how eyes 
and ears will serve me till then I cannot see. God is good. He 
will stand by me. I believe. 

December thirtieth — Two weeks in bed. Nearly blind — so 
far as books and writing go. But with a full heart of love to 
Almighty God. I have not sent out one printed line from 
the Orphanage for forty days. At the beginning of the month 
I asked for $2700.00. And God will give me it all, to the last dol- 
lar, and perhaps not a dollar over. But I have received in small 
gifts a thousand dollars for the endowment and promise of 
$500.00 more. Oh, how good God is. I praise Him. May He be 
with and bless us ever. I am writing this without being able to 
see it. 



418 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

December thirty-first — I have closed the month with $2750 
receipts. I thank the Lord and close that month. He has heard 
my prayer and He hath given ear to the voice of my supplication ! 
Good is the Lord. 

1911_Age 68 

This first day of the New Year has been an ugly one. My 
congregations were good, though. The communion was a good 
one. No additions. At the session meeting, I asked for a co- 
pastor or that I might be retired. I also expressed my willing- 
ness to serve in any capacity or none and asked a meeting of 
session to consider it; when I was not present. This is right. 
I cannot do my whole duty, therefore it should be on some one 
else. I am happier for it. Forty-seven years! I thank God that 
I have served so long and done so much. I will write a resigna- 
tion in toto, so that the church may see that I am earnest. 

Janitary third — In looking over my receipts for December, 
I find that God gave me $6,488, twelve dollars off of the $6,500, 
I asked from him, but another gift or two charged elsewhere 
fully made this up. I am wonderfully grateful and again realize 
that God meant this month of December to comfort me in every 
way for (1) He gave me the exact large sum I asked for for 
the support fund, evidencing His presence. (2) He provided an 
endowment fund for me and the same so stated as to be also a 
pension fund so that however I may be disabled, I will be cared 
for. (3) He has relieved the necessity of pushing the building 
of the Florida Cottage, by giving us a noble gift wherewith to 
erect a Superintendent's house. (4) He has added $2,000 to the 
General endowment fund and so set loose other funds by increas- 
ing our interest receipts by at least four hundred dollars. (5) 
He has enabled us to improve the work at Phlegar and Musgrove 
farm so as to increase our receipts, there also, and also to dimi- 
nish our losses. (6) He has given me grace to put my affairs 
as to the pastorate in the hands of the church. But oh, the best 
of all of it is the realization of the power of prayer and the 
quickening of faith in a present and personal God. 

February ninth — Last week I was praying that God would 
give me fifty souls a year for my hire. On Sunday eleven joined 
Thornwell Memorial. If no more join I will report to Presby- 
tery Clinton First 16; Thornwell 44; total 66. Before they call 
I will answer. 

March fifth — I will try to find some way to do work with- 
out eyes or ears. But it will be a fight. I believe in fighting 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 419 

to the end. And, more, I will make every day a j^ood day for 
somebody ... I have just seen Dr. Parker and he has sentenced 
me. The trouble in my eye as in the other is cataract. Well, 
God's will be done. And yet I pray Him to do the best thinj? 
for me. He knows what it is. After a while possibly my sight 
may be restored by an operation. In the meantime I will give 
much time to God's word — until I can read no more. I will 
preach as never before and I will trust myself wholly into the 
hands of the dear Lord. It will be a year at least before I can 
have the operation. It comforts me to think that some good 
and skilled physician even such a one as the dear Lord himself, 
may yet help me by His wonderful skill. In God will I trust. 
To Him be praise. 

March seventeenth — I commit to record here the inevit- 
able fact that I had entered my 70th year. I was 69 years of 
age on the 15th. I thank God that I am still alive. I don't mean 
barely living but really alive. Fifty years ago I graduated from 
Charleston College. I hope that I will be able to stand my ex- 
amination when I am to enter the University above. 

March twentieth — I have just received from my cousin Mrs. 
Mary Emil>' Pruitt of Thomaston, Ga. the following family tree 
of my grandmother, Mrs. Elizabeth Chew Jacobs : 

First American generation : John Chew of Hogg Island, Va. 
came in ship Charitie, settled first at Jamestown in 1622, was 
burgess from Hogg Island 1623 to 1629 and burgess from York 
Co. 1634 to 1652. His son, Samuel Chew born in Va. in 1625 
married Annie Ayers, daughter of William Ayers, was high 
sheriff of A. A. Co. and died in 1677. Will of Col. Sam Ayers 
has following heirs: wife, Annie; sons: Sam, Joseph, Nathaniel, 
William, Benjamin, John, Caleb; daughters: Sarah and Ann. One 
brother, Joseph. Gen. 2: Samuel Chew of Herrington A. A. Co. 
Md., son of John Chew and wife Sarah. 

Gen, 3. Joseph Chew, A. A. Co. Md. son of Samuel Chew 
and his wife, Anne Ayers. 

Gen. 4. Joseph Chew, Jr. of Prince George Co. Md. son of 
Joseph Chew and his wife Mrs. Elizabeth Houslap Battie, daugh- 
ter of Henry Houslap. 

Gen. 5. Chew, thought to be Roger or John. Oldest male 
issue of Joseph Chew, Jr. as entailed property descended through 
him to Roger Chew of Alexandria. 

Gen. 6. John Chew of Alexandria and afterward of Lon- 
don, Va. grandson of Joseph Chew, Jr. and his wife, Mary. Bro- 



420 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ther of Roger Chew of Alexandria and Elizabeth Chew (who 
married Richard Wightman, married Margaret Reader or Ready 
in 1777. 

Gen. 7. Elizabeth Chew, daughter of John Chew and his 
wife, Margaret, born June 11th, 1778 married Pressley Jacobs 
1799 and mother of Lemuel, Ferdinand, Augustus, Cornelius, 
Margaret, Elizabeth, Caroline, Elmira, Emily. 

I am indeed gratified to find the above record as it furnishes 
a hitherto sealed page of history. My Jacobs ancestry is very 
weak in records. My grandfather mentioned in Gen. 7, died in 
1852 when I was only ten years of age. He was a member of 
the Alexandria-Washington Lodge No. 22, A. F. M. and was a 
fellow with George Washington. He fought as a non commis- 
sioned officer in the war of 1812 in the battle of White House. 
He and his wife were both fine singers and sang in the choir 
for many years. Father said that the tradition was that the 
family was Welch and was originally named James, that our 
ancestor was elected a professor in a University in Holland, 
thought to be Leyden and there Latinized his name (Jacobus). 
The head of the house, later on, emigrated to America about 
1645, that they were always brave, intelligent people; two fine 
young men of the family (named shortened to Jacobs) perished 
before Quebec and there is an old couplet in the family: 

"My father's father and three of his sons 
Fell in the battle of Germantown." 

Another legend places the tragedy at Monmouth. Family 
records were destroyed, according to one legend, to save Fath- 
er's Uncle Thomas (16 years of age) from conscription by the 
British. Grandfather, at that time, was only 6 years old. What 
I want to find out is the name of father's great grandfather 
and whether the family legends are true.* 

March thirty-first — Closed up the month with $200.00 more 
than I asked of the Lord. I am asking him for $1750 the ensuing 
month which is $250.00 more than I received last month. 

April thirteenth — Just fifty years ago the Civil War began. 
Times have very much changed since then but the Civil War 
has not ended. How old it must make me seem to the boys and 
girls when I tell them that I remember those days. 



•Rec'ird «li(i.vcrf<i later indicate that the father of Pressley. or 
Presley, Ja(<>ljs was named Thomas, as was also his grandfather. (Ed.) 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 421 

April nineteenth — A telephone call reached me at Chester 
as I was about to take the train to Charlotte, telling me of Irene 
Dillard's sudden death. I was stunned for the while. I went to 
the Carolina house and took a room till midnight and reached 
home at 2 A.M. So, all my wife's sisters and brothers and their 
partners are gone. I only am left. Mary and I were married 
46 years ago tomorrow. We will bury Irene on that anniversary. 

April twenty -third — As it has been a good while since I had 
made receipt of any large gifts I asked the Lord on Tuesday 
last, to give to the support one hundred dollars or more, in one 
gift, before Saturday and in such way as He thought best. He 
sent me on Friday twenty barrels of flour worth one hundred 
dollars or over — the most acceptable gift and in the most accep- 
table way in which He could have sent it. I asked Him to do this 
to evidence His loving care over the orphans. Under all the cir- 
cumstances, I am sure that was a miracle. I do not know who the 
donor was. It is God's gift pure and simple. 

May twelfth — On Tuesday, 8:45, I went with Bennett to 
Columbia, on the 50th anniversary of my entrance, to Columbia 
Seminary to attend the commencement. 

May fifteenth — I found out to my surprise, last night, that 
my night audiences which are about 225 as a rule, are larger 
than Methodist, Baptist and A. R. P. all combined, and yet I 
thought I was about dead. But there being several thousand 
white people in Clinton, mine is nothing. 

May twenty-seventh — The ladies gave me a delightful re- 
ception at my own house on last eve to commemorate the 47th 
anniversary of my ordination as pastor of the First Church. 
Many were present. 

May twenty-eighth — Forty-seven years ago this day I was 
ordained to the ministry and made pastor of this church. Today 
I preached 2 Tim: 4.1 and gave my views of the good things to 
be accomplished by increase of force and asked for a co-pastor. 

June — The past twelve months, to June the first, have been 

wonderful in their good work for the Orphanage. We have re- 
ceived for 

The Support Fund $31,000 

The Endowment Fund 31,000 

The building Fund 2,200 

The Interest Fund 6,600 

The Mechanical Fund 2,500 



making a total of $73,300 



422 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and which is very far ahead of the receipts of any year up to 
date. I thank God for such a twelve month's showing. I asked 
God for $1600.00 for last month. I received $1615. A mar- 
velous coincidence. I am praying for $2,000 for June. 

June fourth — It is now the 31st College commencement. 
Dr. Alexander White preached for me today. We had 243 at 
First Church S. S. and 273 at Thornwell Memorial S. S. Over 
five hundred scholars in our Presbyterian Church in Clinton is 
getting to be **good". Oh, Lord give me souls. Dear Master, 
without souls saved, what will it all amount to? 

June thirtieth — Col. W. J. Bryan of Nebraska stopped here 
for half an hour. I rode with him over the Orphanage. I was 
decidedly pleased with him. 

July second — I have, at last, led, I trust, by the same kind 
hand that has guided me ever, been enabled by His grace to lay 
down the pastorate of my beloved charge, the First Presbyterian 
Church of Clinton. The session met. I told them my physical 
condition, my inability to discharge the duties of the pastorate 
and handed them my resignation. I need not say that this is 
a bitter trial. I have loved the church most tenderly. I have 
given it my soul. But I realize that my working days as a pas- 
tor are over and that I must yield to the inevitable. " The congre- 
gation is called to meet and accept it — two weeks from today. 
I will have the rest quickly done, and before the first of August 
the tie will be severed. Even as I began my ministry so I end 
it here with '*Doxa en hupsistois Theo!" 

Of course I still remain pastor of the Thornwell Memorial. 
It will prosper more, now that it is not overshadowed both in 
my zeal and love. 

July fifth — How beautiful the world is! As I think of my 
poor eyes and their waning sight my sustaining hope is God, I 
feel happy that I have had the courage to give up this pastorate 
of the First Church. I am happy because it was right for me 
to do it — and yet what regrets come to me as I think of the 
long life-time of service ended. It means to me as nothing else 
could — the coming end. A few more years and then I shall 
know even as also I am known. 

July eighth — I am back home, improved somewhat in symp- 
toms, but feeling like an old wreck, yet with a soul within me 
that is that of the gay bark, all sails set and skimming along 
the salt sea. In truth I am wanting to do all things and yet am 
able to do nothing. 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 423 

JiiUj fourteenth — I wrote my resignation sermon yester- 
day. It is a simple talk on the church and its future hope. I 
realize that it is the hand of God that has led me to this turn 
and that I am safe in His house. I shall try henceforth not to 
have a heart throb, though the love I bear for the dear old church 
is unutterably deep. If I go on as at present, it will be to loss 
and failure. I pray God that He will guide the people on next 
Sunday to do exactly right. And to keep me from heart-burn- 
ings. 

JnUj sixteenth — Well, so far as their vote can make it, I 
am no longer pastor of the First Presbyterian Church. My 
forty-seven years are ended. I do not think I resigned any too 
soon. Though I humbly hope no harm has been done. The res- 
ignation was unanimously accepted. I had hoped up to the last 
minute that they would have voted me a co-pastor, though in 
my letter of resignation I did not ask for it. I had urged that 
before the session in vain. But the volume is closed. I am no 
longer in the lead in church matters. I have laid the founda- 
tion and others will build thereon. How earnestly I pray. Oh, 
Lord, God, that the good work may go right on and that my 
successor may do nobly. Oh, God, select him, bless him, crown 
him with success. My own future narrows, now, but the work 
I have in hand is a good, great work. 

Juhj tiineteenth — As pastor of Thornwell Memorial, I have 
the charge of three hundred souls! Beside these many outsiders 
attend — sometimes even "hundreds". This little church is unique 
in its perfection but also in its lack of independence. I feel sure 
it will be greatly benefitted by my charge. As editor of Our 
Monthly^ to which I propose devoting my time and talents, I 
have an audience of three thousand and can be of service to 
the church at large. And then there is the Thornwell Orphan- 
age. A letter just received says **you are doing the greatest 
work in the Southern Presbyterian Church." Good I I need 
not despair. I have enough to do. 

I am out here at Riverside and find myself greatly improved 
over last week and the week before. I really feel like working 
and, as if to tell me I ought to be up and at it, I have a letter 
from J. J. Eagan (who gave $5,000 to my salary fund) offering 
to head a subscription to raise a $125,000 endowment fund for 
the Orphanage general scholarship fund ! He has not fixed the 
figures, but I know it will at least equal his other donation. 

June twentii-third — Today I preached my last sermon, as 
pastor, to my dear old church. Also I presided at the last meet- 



424 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ing (925th) of the session which as moderator, I shall officially 
direct. A committee has been selected to secure a new pastor. 

July twenty-eighth — Presbytery met this morning and 
broke the bonds. I am no more the pastor of the dear old church 
that I have loved so long and well. I was marvelously surprised 
that the church unanimously agreed to my resignation. If it 
had known that I felt this, hoping even to the last that some 
one would object, possibly it would have been different. I have 
been driven to this step. I have not gone willingly. Everybody 
without exception seemed to think that I ought to resign. It 
is done! Forty-seven years! God give me many years of good 
work yet in which to serve Him. 

June thirtieth — It hurts to have to go on preaching as I am 
doing to a people that I loved so devotedly but whose love now 
is roaming after someone else. But I pray most earnestly for 
their success. 

August — Today at Riverside came the news of little Eva 
Adair. I go in to minister at her grave tomorrow. 

August second — Last night after a sweet hour of song on 
the piazza, stars and clouds fighting for the sky, the pines all 
pointing their fingers upward, the showers drove me to my 
room and this was what happened: 

THORNWELL 

I'm dreaming of "Thornwell" tonight, boys, 

Of that dear old home of my youth. 
I'm singing the songs that I sang, then. 

When life was all beauty and truth. 

Oh Thornwell, 

Dear old Thornwell, 

It was there that I first learned to live. 

Wherever I go, I can see them: 

The chapel, the school room, the home. 
I wonder who now are the playmates, 

Who over our playgrounds, roam. 

Oh Thornwell, 

Dear old Thornwell, 

It was there that I first learned to play. 

My dreaming is sweet with delight, boys. 
My eyes, they grow moister with tears. 

For Riverside days are upon me — 
The wagon rolls in with its cheers. 

Oh Thornwell, 

Dear old Thornwell, 

It was there that I first learned to dream. 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 426 

T wander by dear Enoree, boys, 

I float on its waters again; 
I clamber "the big rock" once more, boys. 

With Patrick and Charlie and Ben. 

Oh Thornwell, 

Dear old Thornwell, 

It was there that I first learned to swim. 

And don't you remember those nights, boys, 

When on the piazza we sang; 
The dark had come down, then the moonlight. 

Each minute we wished an hour long. 

Oh Thornwell, 

Dear old Thornwell, 

It was there I first learned to sing. 

Those tunes, can I ever forget them? 

The good days on dear Enoree. 
Those Riverside days how I loved them; 

For they brought my heart's music to me. 

Oh Thornwell, 

Dear old Thornwell, 

It was there that I first learned to love. 

August tiventy -seventh — I preached my farewell sermon to- 
day — Eph. 3:14-19. It was a very hard task to do. I then walked 
down out of the pulpit and out of the back door. No one on 
earth knows how much it hurts and yet I am glad. The long 
expected has come at last. So comes also the entrance within 
the veil. 

September third — Today began the new year in the Thorn- 
well Memorial. It is hard for me but it is well. 

September sixth — I went to the First Church prayer service 
and to my joy found there were 75 present. My resignation has 
been a blessing to the church. 

September seventh — I went to the Orphanage prayer meet- 
ing. There were 300 present. Ought I not to be satisfied? 

September eleventh — What an over-weening ambition was 
mine! I wanted to control college, church, orphanage, press, 
but the Lord has called me down. Really, it wasn't the honor 
of the thing, I wanted, it was the privilege of building. Much 
credit is given me but I preferred the directing and let others 
get the credit. As in the college, so now in the church, I am 
seeing that these can do better without than with me. I hope 
that in course of time when I am translated from the Orphan- 
age work, that it also will become a more perfect machine for 
God*s glory. 



426 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

September sixteenth — Last Wednesday I conducted prayer 
meeting for the First Church people. There were one hundred 
present! Two of the ladies are phoning up a congregation on 
every Wednesday night. The church seems to be enjoying it's 
hunt for a pastor. God helping me, I am going to make a great 
success of the Thornwell Orphanage. It is, as it were, my last 
stand for the Master. I am to give it, henceforth all that is in 
me. 

September nineteenth — There is really no reason why I 
should get ready to die, yet. Though, as to that, I do not need 
to get ready. I have been ready for forty years past. 

October — Isaac Copeland today told me that they had raised 
$2,000 salary for my successor in the First Church pulpit. I 
have long grieved over giving the church only half of my week 
day work and yet drawing all my salary. My salary was $1,000. 
I feel, since getting Isaac's information that I was giving the 
church all it paid me for. So I am tres content; and moreover, 
am not distressed lest I cannot earn my present salary. 

October fifth — A note from Thornwell tells me that an ar- 
rangement has been made for three cars to take 200 orphans 
over to Atlanta on a trip to attend a great Presbyterian rally, 
appointed for the third sabbath in December. It will cost us 
all a good deal of hard work for us to get them there and back 
safely. 

October fourteenth — I am short five matrons. I have never 
been in this condition before. There are temporary matrons 
in charge but their restlessness does not presage good for their 
children. I little thought when Synod was invited to meet here, 
which it does on Tuesday, that I would no longer be pastor of 
the Clinton church. Certainly it lightens my labor in connection 
with it greatly. Synod will meet here again ten years hence and 
I, where will I be? 

October seventeenth — Dr. Tom Law and his dear wife are 
with us. Tom and I have chummed it since way back yonder in 
'58, and have kept up a desultory correspondence ever since. 
John McSween is to be here, too. Thomas and John, two of 
the disciples. 

October seventeenth — At its session tonight, the Synod 
elected me Moderator. I did not even hear the nomination and 
I felt that it would be impossible for me to serve. A deaf man 
aa Moderator! So I gratefully thanked the brethren and re- 
signed the office promptly. 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 427 

October eighteenth — We had a fine old time on the college 
business yesterday — speeches — speeches — speeches. The won- 
derful part is that I was so honord with these speches. 

October twenty-fifth — I am now enjoying an ideal pastorate. 
This little church is compact, self-supporting, trustful, and obe- 
dient. It is large, yet easily visited, easily disciplined, easily di- 
rected. I miss the dear old First Church for its self-reliant, 
self-governing power, but as a joy to the preacher, commend 
me to the church of the fatherless. 

October twonty-sixth — We are getting our children ready 
to take at least 200 of them to Atlanta to the great Presbyterian 
rall\". Like the Charleston excursion, they will spend two nights 
in the city. I want to take over as many as possible. . . Oh, how 
much easier my life is these days and yet I preach as much as 
ever. Besides three preaching services a week, I conduct the 
"Matins" daily, in all, 500 services a year, visiting three to five 
cottages daily, making at least 1000 visits a year; have private 
conversations with all delinquent children. And all of the above 
is not my real work. That work is to raise $30,000 a year for 
support and all the correspondence connected with it, to edit 
OUR MONTHLY and to write a multitude of newspaper articles 
whereby to spread news of the Thornwell Orphanage to every 
man with a heart and a pocket-book in close proximity. I thank 
God for giving me health and strength to do this work. 

November fourth — Everything now is getting busy for the 
excursion, next Saturday. It will be a great time for the children. 
We will take 250 over, leaving only about 50 at home. 

November fifth — I took dinner yesterday with J. W. Cope- 
land, commemorating the 89th birthday of Mr. George Copeland, 
the oldest S. S. Scholar in Laurens County. Mr. Copeland was 
an elderly man when I came to Clinton. He is still hale and I 
pray God that he may get well into his nineties before the angel 
calls him. I am almost 70, but I enjoy life (in my way). I 
love God's world and I take great delight in all that is about me. 
I need only physical powers. I still love and think and have 
sweet peace and joy. Above all I grow into a clearer vision 
of the eternal presence — and the eternal hope. I notice that I 
no longer worry myself about the number at church and sab- 
bath school and prayer service. Thank God, there is no need 
I should. 

November sixth — These journal notes of mine have been 
extended over a period of more than fifty years. They were 
written solely for myself, though it is possible that my children 



428 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

may some day get hold of them. They are not for publication. 
Indeed, if my biography is ever written it will be a brief one, 
and extracts from these journals would detract from a well writ- 
ten record. I have been reading over some of my old Journals 
today and am struck with their vast amount of repetition but 
it is worth explaining even to myself, that my idea in writing 
has been to enable me to see the way by which the Lord has led 
me upward. He has guided me as surely as ever man was guided 
by the Almighty. I have had to fight bravely for every success 
I have achieved and even yet, I am illustrating that apostolic 
expression "and having done all — stand? I don't purpose ever 
to give up. I am by nature easily discouraged and yet I know 
how, even through discouragements, to hold on. Many are my 
hindrances, but I am of the opinion that even one's limitations 
are not necessarily occasions for discouragement. 

November seventh — Everything is on the move for the ex- 
cursion under Thornwell's direction to Atlanta on Saturday. 
Thornwell is certainly reaching outward and upward. His plan 
is for a grand rally of 10,000 Presbyterians on Sunday morning. 
Two hundred of the orphans will go over on the same train Sat- 
urday, returning Monday. They will take part in the exercises 
both there and at the Central church ... I have been reading 
over my journal of 30 years ago when I was ''fighting" the 
Methodists and Baptists and grieving over their inroads upon 
Clinton. How simple! **How foolish was I and ignorant." Why 
could I not have trusted the Almighty and by that mark why 
cannot I trust Him now? Things are not well with our finances 
but I can trust Him in spite of the failure of cotton mills to 
pay dividends and of low prices for cotton ; and high prices for 
all other goods. The great number of automobiles in the country 
— evidence either the wealth or the recklessness of our people. 
Which it is, I do not know but I feel sure God will not forget 
the orphans. I am earnestly praying for a plentiful support — 
for money for improvements and for funds for the endowment. 

November eighteenth — Bennett has just returned from the 
Synod of Florida and reports that they have decided to accept 
Miss Conkey's gift and to open an orphanage of their own. This 
is a serious blow to us — at least to the extent of $2,000 a year. 
But a $30,000 endowment would replace that loss. God is ruling. 
One cannot complain if the orphans are helped. We will keep 
up our correspondence with the Florida Presbyterians, not that 
we will get much Florida money but we will get Florida oranges. 
Our plan for money raising does not require ecclesiastical en- 
dorsement but Christian love. Dear Lord, thou hast brought 



AGE SIXTY-SEVEN— 1910 429 

this Orphanage to its present condition of good success. It is 
a greater plant, and a better, than I ever planned for. It is not 
complete. If thou dost give me health and strength and thy 
presence it shall be made perfect. With thee as God and guide 
it can be sustained with ease. Give me wisdom. I want to do 
the best thing. Give me the needed equipment and endowment 
for three hundred children and the needed endowment and the 
good intelligence to lead our orphans on the straight path to 
the eternal city. Thou hast wonderfully gratified my ambitions. 
Now, dear Lord, as my day is, so give me strength and oppor- 
tunity and enterprise. Oh, that thou wouldst be with me, over 
me, in me, before me. Answer my prayers for good. Give me, 
best of all, to be obedient to thy law, to enjoy thy love, and to 
share thy life forever. Amen. 

November tweiity-first — I am now praying that our dear 
Lord will help us in at least three directions, besides the special 
support fund, viz. the Florida Cottage and Bennett's efforts; 
the Infirmary, for good plans and good successful building, the 
annex or a new house; the Science Hall for which I am hoping 
for a $2,000 gift. One or all these may the dear Lord give us 
in 1912. 

December thirteenth — Glorious old Bible! The older I am 
the dearer is that precious word. 

December seventeenth — Rev. C. E. Hodgin, elected to be my 
successor, was here today. All the churches closed to hear him 

675 Rush street, Chicago 

Dear Dr. Jacobs: 

December 15, 1911 

Will you accept the enclosed Christmas token for a journey to some 
place of rest and retirement for yourself? 

I send it with the request that you will isolate this little check from 
all others, in order that when you can leave Clinton this amount of ready 
money may be in hand — without any peradventure, otherwise you may for- 
get it is for yourself — your all is given for the Orphans. 

Your splendid son and daughter-in-law are so filial in their concern 
lest you wear yourself out by overwork for the dear Orphan children. We 
feel great attachment to those dear young people. Their beautiful charac- 
ter and great charm have won our admiration and affection. We know too 
from whence they, (I mean your son), have got their lovely natural traits- 
it is from the dear, self-denying father Jacobs. 

I am glad to read the publications you so kindly send me — so well 
edited. I can discover your writing all through. The children of our fami- 
lies are well, as I hope also is the dear child of Mr. William States Jacobs. 

Ever sincerely yours, 
N. F. McCormick. 

(At end of letter) : This is one among the hundreds that come to you that 
expects no answer. We understand each other so that no answer is desired. 



430 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

except the Thornwell Memorial and the A. R. Presbyterian. He 
is an exceedingly pleasant gentleman. My deafness would not 
let me hear him. He has not yet signified his acceptance. 

December thirty-first — This month's receipts were just what 
I prayed for, $7,691. The four months of the current year even 
up with the same period of last year; with nearly $200.00 to the 
advantage of this season, for our support. Our endowment 
receipts, however, were very small ; only $1500.00 against $30,000 
last year but there is a good reason. And now, I must work. 
But that belongs to 1912. 

Dear Lord, bless me, even me. This year brought me sore 
trials. There were two deaths in my orphanage household ; there 
was a sore bereavement in the giving up of my church ; but there 
were mercies; and not least — grace, mercy and peace. 



CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE 

1912— Age 69 

January — Threatened as I am with loss of sight and hearing 
and without teeth, with which properly to masticate my food 
and that, too, at the threshold of my seventy-first year when 
most men lay their burdens down, it would seem as if I should 
be ready to turn over my tasks to younger hands. And, yet, 
at all these calamities I laugh. This soul of mine is just about 
as young as ever; nor can it understand what has happened to 
its poor encasement that it wabbles so and does such poor ser- 
vice. Indeed, I am like an eagle with a broken wing but yet an 
eagle still. Beyond doubt I am nearing the western boundary of 
life but I not only do not realize it, I feel as if I had a right to 
plan and work as much as ever. 

Janiuary second — I have just seen two bright, sprightly, 
healthy children go romping by, ten years old. One or other of 
them may see 1980. If they are still living in Clinton with its 
street cars, daily press, automobiles and aeroplanes, may they 
be able to point out to visitors the Thornwell College for Or- 
phans, a great, rich and godly home for orphans, and may its 
105th anniversary be the noblest yet. 

I have received the first issue of Thornw^ell's new monthly 
paper "THE WESTMINSTER". It seems that he inherits my 
newspaper traits. Here's for good success to his venture. 

January seventh — This is the first sabbath in the New Year. 
We woke up to find the whole earth covered with a beautiful 
coverlet of snow, the first in five years ... I begin a series 
of sermons on Moses — the greatest of the ancients. It will last 
through the year. 

January thirteenth — I dined with Mr. I. Copeland today in 
a violent snow storm. I enjoyed the day. Snow eight inches 
deep. 

January fourteenth — The Thornwell Memorial was the on- 
ly church open in Clinton today. The thermometer at eight 
degrees and the snow covered earth was too much for the people 
but I am glad for my little church. We had some forty outsiders. 
I had "freedom" in preaching. A letter from Mrs. Lesh intimates 
that she is preparing to give the orphans a new cottage. I thank 

431 



432 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

God. I hope that He will keep her in that mind and that we may 
build this summer. 

January sixteenth — Last night at 12 o'clock, Mollie came 
into my room and told me that the Home of Peace was on fire. 
I was glad that it was in God's hands for good or ill. I was glad 
that the building was insured for $7,000, enough to cover its 
loss. And I was still more glad when on reaching the grounds 
a few minutes later, I found that our Clinton fire company was 
at hand and presently, though the thermometer was at six de- 
grees and everything cased in ice, yet water was to be had and 
the fire was put out with not more than $500.00 damage. It was 
a cause of gratitude that no child was hurt. 

January twenty-fifth — Much to my pleasure, our receipts 
for the month, to date, summed up $3002.35. I have received 
all I asked the Lord for and there are still five more days. 

January thirty-first — I have just buried Mrs. Ann Pearson. 
She was the only survivor with one exception, of the Presby- 
terian Church of Clinton, that called me to its pastorate, 47 
years ago. I asked the Lord for $3,000 during this month of 
January. He gave me $3250.00. "Open thy mouth wide and I 
will fill it." 

February first — My prayer is that the dear Lord would 
give me $2,000 for the support fund this month. 

February fourth — The great canvass for the $200,000 fund 
for our college is "on". This is the biggest thing our synod has 
ever undertaken. I earnestly pray that God would make it a 
success. They are asking $10,000 from Clinton. God grant 
that it may succeed in securing that sum. Rev. Frank D. Jones 
of Charlotte is to be my successor in the First Church. Oh, Lord, 
give him a wonderful portion of thy spirit and quiet success in 
the good work. He and I must work together. 

February thirteenth — In my fear lest there should be a great 
forgetting of the orphans on the part of the people, I took up my 
1901 annual report — ten years ago. I found that the three syn- 
ods had increased from 40,000 to 53,000 members. Our receipts 
for support increased from $16,000 to $32,000. Our child sup- 
porters in S. C. increased from 3 to 143; in Ga. from 30 to 93. 
Our endowment had increased from $27,000 to $139,000. The 
new buildings in those ten years are: The Mary Jacobs School, 
the Supervisor's Home, Gordon, Fowler, Silliman, Hollings- 
worth and Georgia Homes, the Tech Annex, Conservatory, the 
McCall Building, the Carolina Memorial in place of the Semi- 



AGE SIXTY.NINE— 1912 433 

nary, the sewerage, water supply, bath room and fire protec- 
tion and quite a number of smaller improvements such as Mr. 
Scott's building, the Silo and machinery, electric lighting 
throughout the grounds, alumni cottage at Musgrove etc. On 
the whole, I ought to be much encouraged. 

Febnuinj tiveyity- fourth — I asked the good Lord to give me 
at least $2,000 for this month. He has already given me within 
a few dollars of it. 

February was a great success in money getting for the or- 
phans. We received $200.00 more than I asked for and closed 
the month with $200.00 more in the treasury than last Febru- 
ary. For all which I thank God most gratefully. 

March third — And today Bro. Frank Dudley Jones came 
with his family to take charge of his work in "my" old church. 
Lord give him great success. 

March fourth — Yesterday I went round to the First Church 
and heard Bro. Jones's sermon to his people. The dear old church 
— may God prosper the new pastor and give wonderful success 
and great honor to the dear brethren. I am glad my ordeal is 
over. Yesterday eve we had a sweet communion season at the 
Thornwell Memorial. My field of labor is now equal to my 
strength. I am happy in it. 

March seventh — I recall that some years back I proposed 
an endowment of $10,000 for our college and called on the whole 
U. S. to foot the bill. But now, we are aiming at a $100,000 
endowment and Clinton is making an effort to raise $10,000 of 
it. Moreover, it looks as if we would succeed. 

March fifteenth — Certainly this is just about the worst rain 
we have had for many a long year. At 7 when the bell rang 
and to m>' surprise, it was the Thornwell Memorial bell, it was 
pouring dowTi furiously — we reached the church however, and 
then when I saw the crowd and the pastors — all of them — of 
the city assembled, and many people, it struck me that this was 
my 70th birthday. How the dear people all reached the place 
is a mystery — they must have swum. Bennett conducted the 
services beautifully. Ellison Simpson poured a loving cup of 
praise on my head and presented it to me in behalf of the chil- 
dren. They sang beautifully and there were lovely flowers from 
everywhere. All made me, most unworthy, very happy. It was 
all unexpected. Fronde Kenned>''s poem was beautifully sung 
to "Old Lang Syne" by all the people. The lights went out. When 
I began to speak, the lights came back again. Florence gave me 



434 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

a great dinner. All my children and grandchildren were there. 
And we were all very happy together. Well, I might as well 
face it. I am 70. Moreover, I can't help it. Even the scriptural 
limit gives me nearly ten years more. Be that as it may, I am 
just going right on. I will take no advantage of my years to 
drift, idle — above all things to snivel. If it is to be ten years or 
twenty — it will mean work. 

March thirty-first — I had the privilege of preaching to my 
old congregation for Brother Jones this A.M. I was surprised 
and delighted to see a great many new faces; and very large 
congregation. Bro. Jones is moving right on. He is making 
good and my heart is glad. 

April sixth — One of the surprises of the week was Thorn- 
weirs success, thus far, in reviving Oglethorpe University. What 
I have done for South Carolina, he is doing for Georgia. 

April eleventh — Today is my daughter, Florence Bailey's 
46th. birthday. She looks as young and spry as the women of 
war-times looked at 30. 

April fourteenth — A sweetly beautiful sabbath day, full of 
the glory of the spring time. The trees are all in full dress of 
richest green. Flowers are everywhere. As to the services, they 
were well attended, morning and afternoon. Bro. Jones preach- 
ed for me in the afternoon and he gave us a fine sermon. The 
children listened well. Oh, how joyous and holy these sabbath 
days. 

April twentieth — Today is the 47th anniversary of my mar- 
riage. My heart weeps no longer for Mary. She will wait for 
me. Oh wasn't that beautiful when Mrs. Isadore Strauss clung 
to her husband, refusing to be saved as he could not be, when the 
Titanic went down last Sunday morning. And the grandeur of 
the scene was unspeakable, the band playing, to the very last, 
"Nearer my God to thee!" Sixteen hundred men went down 
with the ship. Captain Smith was swept overboard with the 
last lurch of the great vessel. He rose near a boat — the men 
in it cried "there's the Captain, pull him in." "No fellows, I 
follow my ship." And so he .sank. Grand! The whole nation 
is swept with a wave of sorrow for these brave men. 

aM(I!/ twenty-third — I note with pleasure that States has 
been chosen delegate to the General Council of churches: Thorn- 
well has won in his plans for a Pan-Presbyterian Pentecost in 
Atlanta. Ferd is having a great time with the ad people in Dal- 



AGE SIXTY.NINE— 1912 435 

las. Dill is in New York and I am loafing in Charleston at Mrs. 
McCormick's expense. 

This afternoon I took a walk in and about old haunts. The 
old college I Rough windows, rough brick pavements in the base- 
ments. It was that way 50 years ago. I took a walk from the 
college round to the old home, corner King and Vanderhorst. 
The front door is all bricked up. Bottles and drug store dis- 
plays fill our front dining room windows. I judge our cozy 
dining hall is a lumber room now. Eheu! the dear old days 
come back no more. 

May twenty-fifth — Home again and busy. All day I have 
spent struggling to understand the pellagra situation. We cer- 
tainly have a bad time with it. 

May twenty-sixth — Forty eight years ago I was ordained 
and installed Pastor of the Clinton, Shady Grove and Duncan's 
Creek churches. Today, I am to assist in installing my successor 
— Rev. Frank Dudley Jones. May our God give him great suc- 
cess — a most fruitful ministry and a fine increase of member- 
ship. With the service this morning at which my old church 
was turned over to Bro. Jones, my connection with it is forever 
closed. I gave the charge to the people out of a full heart. Bro. 
Jones of the church, Bro. Douglas of the College and I of the 
Orphanage must work together. I might add also, J. F. Jacobs 
of the Religious Bureau for he is certainly doing a great work 
for Presbyterian Journalism. 

June second — Forty years ago (July 7th) I organized the 
Clinton High School Association out of which the Presbyterian 
College of S. C. has grown. I will attend the 32nd commence- 
ment of the College this week. Murchison preaches the sermon 
today. It is a beautiful day. The college will build a new and 
noble dormitory this year. I am glad and thankful. 

July fourth — I am rejoicing along with the state, in Wood- 
row Wilson's nomination to the presidency. I knew him as a 
bo\ and admired his father very much indeed. He was a devoted 
friend of father and mother. 

July fifth — This is one of Riverside's rainy days. I am due 
to be at home this eve, but every prospect is for a rise in the 
creek. Our Riverside farm is the muddiest of red land when it 
rains, and so it does look as if on such days we were aboard ship. 
But it rests one so to feel that you have nothing to do. 

July fourteenth — Just fifty years ago this day I preached 
my first sermon in Clinton. Moreover it was the first sermon 



436 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

I had ever written. I was twenty years old but not licensed. 
Today I preach it over to a little audience in the Thornwell Me- 
morial. I have never preached it since June 13th, 1862. ''Jesus 
wept, And the Jews said, 'behold, how He loved Him'." 

July twenty -fourth — The river was full yesterday and a lit- 
tle dangerous to be caught in the Musgrove mill shoals. For 
about a minute I thought our boat was going to swamp as we 
rolled over on the rocks, but the girls behaved beautifully and 
all went off alright. 

July tiventy-fifth — The receipts are awfully short this 
month. I attribute it to the divided interests of our people. The 
fearfully disgusting political campaign has brought all of the 
worst element of the state into prominence and is giving occasion 
for serious alarm to those who really love their country — but 
one must not despair. Even this abounding zeal of the ignorant 
and evil minded is educative. One might even dread this under- 
world of passion were it not for the letting in of the light. South 
Carolina is a God-fearing state and that is its salvation . . . Riv- 
erside days are delightful. It means to me ample rest from ex- 
citing cares and interests — doing only what I feel like doing — 
and leaving the rest out. I sit in my little room by its lone win- 
dow and catch vision of the pines and the clouds, the green earth 
and the blue sky, Love and God. 

August second — Perfectly delightful weather after the rain 
but I must leave Riverside for home this evening. 

August fourth — I preached for the first Church people this 
morning. The pastor is absent. My afternoon sermon was a 
memorial discourse. Dr. James Henley Thornwell, who died 
fifty years ago this week. 

August tenth — I am at Riverside for a week's stay. In fact 
I do not expect to go in before next Thursday. I came out quite 
unwell but am much improved already. This is really to be the 
last holiday I will take. I will come here again each week till the 
close of the season but there is some hard work to be done be- 
fore school begins. 

August eleventh — If I do not err, this is only the second 
time that I have spent the Sabbath at Riverside Cottage since 
it was founded in 1900 — 13 years ago. I preached to the little 
people in the new dining hall, dedicating it to the comforts of 
both body and mind ... If I were selecting the most wonderful 
01" modern (past fifty years) inventions I would certainly put 
them as follows: Wireless telegraphy; the telephone; electric 



AGE SIXTY.NINE— 1912 437 

lights and motor power; the fountain pen; the typewriter; the 
phonograph and the aeroplane — though the latter is hardly ar- 
rived as yet. The bicycle and the automobile must surely come 
in along with it. e. g. one of our children was taken quite ill 
yesterday. In ten minutes a phone message brought out an au- 
tomobile and in thirty minutes she was at the infirmary and 
phoned back "alright." Modern surgery is as wonderful as any 
of these. 

August eighteenth — My sabbath crowds are small through 
the summer but I try to preach good sermons. I do love our 
little church. 

August tiventy-third — Is any life worth living that leaves 
no memorial, both blessing and continuing to bless. 

September first — It is forty years since I decided to work 
for the establishment of the Thornwell Orphanage. I am look- 
ing forward, God sparing me, to ten more years of good service. 

Elijah had his course suddenly cut short — but he went up 
in power as well as glory. And a similar end awaits every man 
who is thoroughly willing to serve God to the uttermost. 

September sixth — I ought surelv to be given a place on the 
lecture bureau. I am taking my officers in sections and divis- 
ions, telling them all I know. I am really getting the institu- 
tion to move off on greased wheels. Thank God. A happy old 
age! Somebody wanted me to have that. I have it. I am not 
content with that. I must have a thoroughly busy and useful 
old age. Down to my last moment. I want to be found with my 
hands on the plow. 

September twenty- first — They all laugh at me at home for 
persistently taking lodgings at the Argyle when I visit Charles- 
ton or for even coming to Charleston at all when there is the 
great Atlanta so much more easily reached and so live and 
growthy. But w^hy not? I feel at home here, even if I do have 
a different room at every visit (this time it is 98). I have a 
very pretty view of the Charleston hotel from its window and 
of St. Michael's squarely in front. A heavy cloud is hanging 
over the city and it does look as if I were going to find it a wet 
trip to Edisto. I was early on the battery this morning, though 
I didn't reach the city till about twelve, last night. There is a 
weird sensation that the sea always gives me, that carries me 
awav from mundane things altogether. I look out on the rest- 
less waters. My eyes look further and further toward the sky- 
line, I begin to realize the meaning of the words "the boundless 






438 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

deep." The earth is miles away and its whole surface becomes a 
waste of fathomless rolling waves, filled with strange creatures, 
a world of its own, in which no man dare dwell, and presently 
I am lost to the things about me and am looking for the spirit 
of God that moved upon the face of the waters. 

Well, this morning I visited all my old haunts. I always 
do that when I come to the city. And it is a real pleasure to see 
how little changes there are in it all — that is the joy of Charles- 
ton anyway — it is improving and growing, but it is not tearing 
down the old . . . The preceding was written in Charleston this 
morning. I am now in Townsend Mikell's delightful home on 
top Edisto. He calls his place Sunnyside. It is situated on an 
island about two acres in extent, water entirely surrounding 
it . . . For twenty-five cents I had more pleasure than I ever 
got out of that sum before for I sat and sat and thought and 
thought as I took sweet note of the lovely water views about 
us. I thank God for having given me a heart to love Him and 
to enjoy this beautiful world. The planet Mars, they say, has 
neither mountains nor oceans, but is a level plain with water 
mains, with desert views of yellow sand as the only national 
scenery, except for the fresh water lakes at the poles. If no 
mountains, then probably aluminum is their only metal and their 
pipes are all of terra cotta. I like our world very much better. 
Certainly I have learned something of the geography of our sea- 
coast today. Take it all in all, this is about the most peculiar 
location for a home that I have ever had the pleasure of visiting. 
A little isle with scattered trees; palmetto, live oak, magnolia, 
a causeway and bridge leading out from the house to the shore, 
a deep salt inlet surrounding it on all sides, full of fish and crabs 
and oysters, and all this inside of Edisto island which latter is 
surrounded by wide arms of the sea to which large steamboats 
come and go. I remember the good old days I spent here, fifty 
two years ago. Townsend Mikell was my friend then and as for 
his sister, Mary, if she had been an angel from heaven, I could 
not have loved her more. We three are still alone but the others 
that were our dearest ones then are gone within the veil. 

September twentihsecond — This morning Mrs. Mikell, at my 
urgent request, took me down to Eding's Bay. I spent the sum- 
mer of '59 and '60 in the lovely summer retreat called "Edings- 
ville" and I know those were the halcyon days of my early life. 
Edingsville then had two churches and forty or fifty families — 
resident there the whole summer through. But now! There 
is not a stick of timber on the islet. Where stood the Presbyterian 
Church and parsonage so dear to my young manhood, now rolled 



AGE SIXTY-NINE— 1912 439 

the waves of the throbbing sea. Ever, a requiem for the sweet 
Auburn is being sung by solemn-voiced waves of the infinite 
ocean. I climbed the only sand hill on the islet. From its crest, 
where a few palmettoes sigh to the sea-breeze, I caught vision 
01 the great deep. How gladly I would have spent the whole day 
there! Edings Bay is gone. Nothing remains of it — not even 
the ground itself, save a little thin islet, of a few acres extent, 
its only inhabitants being millions and millions of fiddlers. If 
we had had time I would have gladly put in an hour or two col- 
lecting for our Museum. 

September twentu-mnth — My heart has been surcharged 
with prayer this whole day long. I am crying after God that He 
would bless me — that He would bless the Orphanage and all His 
work here. And, oh, I am so grateful for the past and long- 
ing for a heaven-bright future. 

Oatober — Lord, give me this month, enough for the month 
and in addition, enough to cancel last month's indebtedness. It 
will take $3,000. I have a most encouraging letter, promising a 
$10,000 Infirmary. Oh, God speed the promise to fulfillment. 

October sixth — The time is coming when this institution 
will have a hundred buildings, a thousand children, a million dol- 
lar endowment, and a God-given president to do all that. 

November sixth — I went out yesterday evening on a walk 
and my steps took me over to the college campus. I found the new 
dormitory being rushed along to completion. The front entry 
is massive and beautiful. It makes me rejoice that Bro. Douglas 
has such splendid courage. He is moving things. He has a score 
of other improvements in view. And that makes me very happy 
indeed. 

November ninth — The teachers and our sophomore class 
were yesterday's Riverside party. The day was a beautiful one — 
a little cool — just enough to make us kindle the first fire in our 
new dining hall. Enoree was raging. It was a great swollen 
flood and the current exceedingly swift but we took three par- 
ties of girls up the river and enjoyed it hugely. We had a de- 
lightful dinner. Leaving at five P.M., the sun left us a few 
minutes later. Venus and Jupiter, about three degrees apart, 
hung over the west and made night beautiful. It was a joyous 
day — a day of youth time. How I do love Enoree and Riverside! 

November twenty-eighth — I had a reunion of my children 
and grandchildren at my home today. I am happy in my child- 
ren. God bless them. I wish mv three absent boys and their 



440 DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 

households could have been with me. Snow covered the earth 
this morning but it is nearly all gone this evening. The day's 
receipts for the Orphanage came very near the $500.00 mark. 
I am exceedingly anxious to close up the month without debt but 
I fear we cannot do it. Our Thanksgiving service was in the 
Thornwell Memorial. Jones preached. I was so deaf today that 
I could hear nothing. 

December tenth — I earnestly hope that the second Centen- 
nial of Dr. Thornwell's birth, Dec. 9th, 2012 will be observed 
under even more dehghtful circumstances. But none of us will 
be there to see. 

December twentieth — This is the 52nd anniversary of the 
ordinance of Secession. The war is over. There is no longer 
North or South. A Virginian will enter the Presidential chair. 

December tiventy-second — A telegram today brings the dis- 
tressing intelligence of Judge Phlegar's death. I have never 
seen him but I loved him for his works' sake. Next to Mrs. Mc- 
Cormick he has done more for the Orphanage than any one else. 
He has been the means of turning into the Orphanage about 
$35,000 to $40,000. His own gifts were large and constant. He 
was planning a new scholarship very recently which we may 
now lose. What a distress. His gifts to the support were $500 
or more annually. And his death may mean the cessation of 
the Sunday School memorial gift. Today is a dark day. The 
clouds hang heavy but God is nigh. 

December tiventy -seventh — A delightful Christmas occasion, 
taking it all in all. Up to today I have received $6,820.00. This 
lacks a good deal of the $7,500.00 I asked for but I am hoping 
for more before the month ends. I have also received six hun- 
dred from Christianburg for the endowment, which is their last 
large gift, I fear. But we ought to rejoice. Their gifts have 
paid for the Musgrove farms and that brings us in about $500.00 
income a year and is a rock ribbed investment. 

December thirtieth — Christmas is producing its usual har- 
vest of trials. My greatest is the carelessness of matrons in 
obedience to rules. 

I look back over the year with a glad heart. I am grate- 
ful fn God for having given me a whole year without one sick 



<i 



AGE SIXTY-NINE— 1912 441 

1913— Age 70 

Oh my soul, sit still and ponder 

On the visions of the Word. 
Fear not, Faint not, shout with wonder 

At the glorious grace of God. 

January eleventh — A letter today from Miss Mary M. Phle- 
gar brought a check for endowing a cot in the Infirmary of Fif- 
teen hundred dollars. I gratefully thank God. Another from 
Mr. B. M. Hagan of Christianburg tells me that Judge Phlegar 
left the Orphanage $2500.00 in his will which will be paid soon. 
He also assures me that the Christianburg School will keep up 
its superb annual gift to the endowment fund. 

Jannary tiventy-fifth — Today we buried our dear old bro- 
ther, George P. Copeland, 90 years of age. He was a trustee of 
our church — sole surviving member of the official board. Au 
revoir Uncle George. 

January twenty-yiinth — My poor little sister, Minnie Wren 
died today in Nashville. She had been very sick in Miami and 
was hastened to Nashville only to die. She has been dependent 
on my care, more even than on her other brothers, but in her 
death it has fallen to Mamie to care for her. 

February sixteenth — I have been quite unwell for several 
days past, but I am encouraged today by a lovely sabbath after 
several days of frost, notwithstanding a tussel with grippe. I 
preached so that many seemed to enjoy the discourse. I also 
enjoyed the thought of the text immensely — **I have loved thee 
with an everlasting love". God seemed very near. I have spent 
much of this day with my books. I can, indeed, call the Sabbath 
p. delight, "the holy of the Lord." My heart fills up on God's 
day with a well-spring of joy and I get near to my Savior. 

February twentieth — I went over to my office this morning 
to find that only one letter had come by the morning's mail but 
on opening it, to my surprise and delight, it contained a check 
from Mrs. McCormick for $5,000, the interest only to be used 
and that for the annual repair of her seven cottages. The gift 
was undoubtedly in answer to prayer. This gift helps me to be 
relieved of one of the anxieties for the future, that these houses 
have always caused me. My heart goes out in thankfulness to 
God for having touched the heart of our noble, generous friend. 
The ink was hardly dr>' upon the above paragraph, when my 
evening mail brought in a check from Mrs. J. H. Lesh for the 
Infirmary of $2500. I thank thee, Father, not only for this 



442 



DIARY OF WILLIAM FLUMER JACOBS 



most gracious gift but that the coming of both these gifts were 
in answer to the special prayer offered last Sunday night. My 
heart is full to overflowing and indeed my hands will soon be 
full also. ^ 

March seventeenth — This is perhaps my last trip here. I Hke 
Miami very much indeed. My first trip here was to pass through 
on my way to Cuba. Later on I made a trip here to see Minnie. 
Then I came with ElHott to go to Nassau. A little later, while 
Cleo was here. This is my sixth trip and I specially came this 
time to see Key West and the Florida Keys. If I ever come 
again it will be for a tour southward. However, that can be 
more easily made from Charleston . . . One of our pleasures 
here has been to go to the Seawall. Old Ocean is a great com- 
forter. 

March tweyity -seventh — The troublous floods in the north- 
west now attracts the attention of the whole country and silences 
the pitiful appeals of our fatherless children. 

March thirtieth — I preached this morning with difficulty. 
Brother Hooten preaches this afternoon. I am almost perfectly 
deaf and very hoarse, but I am happy for God is with me. The 
week has been a trying one but I am having everything straight- 
ened out and hope to begin a good week tomorrow and a good 
month Tuesday. My prayer is gratified. God has given me the 
$2,000 I prayed for for March and with all my heart I am pray- 
ing for $2,000 for April. 

Dear Lord, be gracious unto me. I need comfort for I am 
passing through physical trials and anxiety. I was young and 
now I am old but never have I seen the righteous forsaken nor 
His seed begging bread. 

April thirteenth — How beautiful the world is and how happy 
I am that I am alive and am still able to work. I dread the days 
of darkness, when I can no longer work, but am hoping for those 



675 Rush street, Chicago 
March 1, 1913 



Rev. William P. Jacobs 
Clinton. South Carolina 
Thornwell Orphanage 
Dear Mr. Jacobs: 

Rev. D. McDowell Douglas presented your letter to Mrs. McCormick 
and made his appeal for help to complete the $200,000.00 Endowment Fund. 
MrM. McCormick has ajrreod to contribute $5,000.00. as you will see by the 
copy of the enclosed letter. Mrs. McCormick wanted you to know the terms 
upon which this contribution was made, and I felt that it was better for 
you to have an exact copy, rather than to attempt to give you the informa- 
tion in letter form. 

Yours very truly, 

T. B. Gorton, Secretary. 



AGE SIXTY.NINE— 1912 443 

good times, when, with all my loved ones, I will be forever happy 
and forever young. 

Apiil fourteenth — There came the unfortunate news of the 
lawsuit for the $5,000 worth of property left to us by Mrs. Sher- 
ard at Greenwood and last of all, not a dollar or a letter by this 
evening's mail. The day, too, is cold and threatening frost to- 
night. But God is good and He never brings a distress but He 
adds some great blessing. 

April fifteenth — I have in my Library some 3,000 books. 
These have become in part a history of myself. I have lived in 
the books and they have been absorbed in me. For the most part 
they are good and useful books and I am desirous that in some 
suitable way they should be kept together and made a monument 
to my memory — old dry books are a very suitable memorial of 
an old dried up man. I want my children to see to this. There 
are quite a number that are valuable. There is the only complete 
set of Our Monthly in existence. My short-hand Library is per- 
haps the best in the South. I have complete files of the Minutes 
of the Assembly and of Enoree Presbytery. I have a complete 
set of the Southern Presbyterian Review. My theological library 
contains the current orthodox views. I have about 20 volumes 
of my own mother's and five to six hundred of my father's. Some 
books from Dr. Thornwell's library. On the whole, the collection 
is unique and it ought not to be scattered. A hundred years 
hence it would be an object lesson. My hope is that the Thorn- 
well Orphanage may have a great Library building some day and 
that one room may be set apart as a Memorial Room of the foun- 
der of the Orphanage and that my books may be a part of the 
furnishing of that room. This is only a little of my folly but 
even wise men are foolish at times. 

April nineteenth — Ferd called round in his automobile and 
took us on a 20 mile ride. We started out to Riverside but it was 
threatening rain so we failed to make it. 

April twentieth — Forty-eight years since my marriage. 
Those blissful thirteen years but the sorrowful thirty-five! I 
miss my darling yet ... In reading over the annals of ancient 
Assyria I find that the Egibi family were the great bankers of 
that day. Now Egibi is just the Assyrian way of writing Jacobs. 
A venerable and active family they were and are — and good at 
finance! ... I am amazed to find that I am booked to open the 
great Quadrilateral Assembly in Atlanta, May loth, with prayer. 

April twenty-fifth — I have just told the brethren out at the 
Decatur Orphanage good-bye and I have ridden in and through 



444 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and. out to Ansley Park, 15 Maddox Drive, to Dillard's home — 
about fifteen miles . . . Every trip I have made to Atlanta shows 
me vast improvements. Over 2,000 buildings a year is the pro 
rata. The Oglethorpe University site is to be 12 miles from the 
center of the city, as far as Laurens is from Clinton! Atlanta 
is a city in the country, owing to the many unusable gullies and 
ravines and hills, but it is for that very reason a very beautiful 
city ... A delightful forty mile p6r hour, in a Pullman car 
brought me home. Oh, how sweet home is. Cyrus was at the 
station with his car and in five minutes I was home. Dear old 
Clinton, you are dearer to me than all Atlanta. 

April tiventy -seventh — Today I preached at the first church. 
Scores shook hands with me. It was painful, yet pleasant. My 
mail last night brought me $7500.00 for the Lesh Infirmary. The 
whole sum has now been paid in and work must go right on. 

When the Panama Canal was first undertaken, I said to my- 
self, I will never live to see it finished and now the opening is 
very close at hand! What may not God yet permit me to see. I 
have surely seen many things accomplished that I never dreamed 
possible in my life. 

May fifteenth — I came over last evening with Mollie to this 
thriving, bustling city of Atlanta and am with my dear son, Dill. 
States came in from Texas to Clinton and spent the morning 
with me, before I left. I was delighted to see "the great Dr. Ja- 
cobs" (There is 220 lbs. of him). He tells me of his little son's 
advancement which makes me glad. Dill met us at the train and 
brought us up to his home. Louise was with him. After a good 
sleep last night and a delightful breakfast this morning. Thorn- 
well called and took me down to the Constitution office to be 
photographed. I was in at the opening of our General Assembly 
at 11 A. M. and was made to go up into the pulpit and offer an 
invocation. I greatly enjoyed the communion with the Assem- 
bly. Dillard met me after service and took me to lunch with him, 
and to "a movie", and a little later Kate Upchurch called and 
took me to ride in her automobile from which I find myself just 
returned at four P. M. How kind they all are to the old man. 
God bless them. 

May sixteenth — Last night I was on the platform at the sreat 
auditorium gathering — a magnificent expression of Presbyte- 
rian unity. My only duty was the opening invocation. It was a 
mighty audience. We didn't get to bed till one A. M. In the 
aft(»r part of the morning I went down to the Assembly and met 
scores of my friend.s — so many that they confused me. Thence 



AGE SIXTY.NINE— 1912 445 

I went to Thornwell's Reception given at the Capital City Club 
to the Religious Press. It was a fine dinner. 

May ticentjhfofirth — The work on the buildings is moving 
forward slowly. Money for the support isn't coming in at all. 
And I have a headache. 

May twenty-eighth — No funds are coming in but expenses 
are. 

May thirst y-first — Yesterday I took a day off going out to 
Riverside with the printer boys and some of the seniors. Ferd 
came out at five-thirty and took me in his automobile. We whirled 
along through Laurens to Clinton, 23 miles, in one and a half 
hours, reaching home before the others who left in the carriage 
and had only eight miles to come. The Automobile is making a 
great change in travelling conditions. We begin to realize that 
this is a new age and not the one in which I passed 65 years. 

Jime tiventy-^third — What are my future plans for the Or- 
phanage? 

1— $100,000 scholarship fund. 

2 — A perfect Infirmary system. 

3 — A noble Museum and Curator. 

4 — A well equipped College building including professor, 
observatory, laboratory, business department. 

5 — A model farm. 

6 — A beautiful, well laid off campus with paved sidewalks. 

7 — A Musgrove Industrial farm for troublesome boys. 

8 — Five hundred orphans. 

9 — A systematized and well organized method of govern- 
ment. 

10 — A $50,000 annual income. 

But why am I making this look into the future? It is just 
a notice to myself that I mean to "die in the harness". I am not 
going to retire, ever, from the Orphanage work — but I am willing 
for someone to have a partnership with me in this cause, some- 
one who will assume the support of the home and the direction 
of its order. I am willing for the Synodical Board to place on 
my "Assistant" whatever duties and responsibilities they wish 
in which case that part of the work will not rest on me. How- 



446 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

ever, when I die, there will be a cataclysm anyway in Orphanage 
affairs and I need not provide a Solomon to succeed me as David 
did. For after all Solomon was something of a failure. 

May twenty-eighth — I begin my Riverside trips next Tues- 
day. Dillard is here and we are enjoying his society. 

July second — Out at Riverside on. a lovely July day, enjoying 
the green earth, the wide spaces, the quiet, the sw^eet, dust-free 
morning aii* and the odor of an appetising breakfast and even 
the waiting for it — I feel that I can do as I please; and that is 
the sum and substance of Riverside! Yesterday 74 people died 
of the heat in Chicago, and I guess the balance wondered how 
people away down in South Carolina survived. 

July thirteenth — I preached this morning on the front piazza 
to about 30 young people, on the 115th Psalm. It was a sweet 
and thoughtful service. I am happy in the thought that this 
has been a well-snent sabbath. Our children have had a salu- 
tary lesson. I will talk to them again this evening in the gloam- 
ing. 

July fourteenth — On Saturday, Ferdinand came in his fath- 
er's automobile and took us into town, where I put in a steady 
morning's work, getting through with banking matters and I 
visited the two new buildings. Work was going on very well. 
Florence brought me back in the afternoon in her automobile — a 
half hour's ride — four times as fast as our carriage. 

July fifteeiifth — It is the sweet, fresh air of the morning and 
the early morning walks that help some. Then the delightful 
breakfast with its perfect coffee, that strengthens for the day. 
And after that, the amazing fact that I sit and read and write 
for hour after hour without one single interruption. All this 
brightens life at Riverside. In the evening comes the moonlight 
and the melody of child-voices, singing their songs; Oh, sweet 
days at Riverside. 

July eighteenth — I appreciate, I trust, the plan to make the 
new Science Hall at the college a memorial of me but I feel 
humbled by it as well. It seems to me that monuments ought 
not to be built to the living. Mav the plan to erect this noble 
building meet with the blessing jf the Almighty. 

July nineteenth — Will and Florence called yesterday and took 
us in their automobile to Laurens. We left home at six-thirty 
and were back home after 26 miles of it at nine P. M. 

July twentieth — Two poor sermons preached today. Went 
around in Ferd's automobile to his home to baptize my little 



AGE SIXTY-NINE— 1912 447 

grand child, Thornweirs only daughter. Came back in Flor- 
ence's automobile. 

July twenti/secofid — Riverside. My grandson, Ferdinand 
(and a splendid young man he is) came around at three o'clock 
with his -father's automobile and brought Mollie, Cassie Oliver 
and Nanne Jacques (a part of my famly) in thirty minutes to 
Riverside. I was more impressed than ever with the value of 
this splendid means of locomotion — a private railroad on a pri- 
vate road. 

August twelfth — It is beautiful at the Orphanage. It is quiet 
and free of anxiety at the River. Which shall I prefer? Alas, 
my deaf ears make it quiet enough at home, but there is a strain 
to hear what is said to me that is harder to hear than noise. We 
are fearfully behind in our finances. Only $400.00 received to 
date. It ought to have been $1200, if we are to be spared from 
debt. 

August thirteenth — Much to my amazement, George Flana- 
gan brought Allen Langston here to be married. I married them 
in the dining room — the first marriage at Riverside and that of 
two of our Orphanage pupils. Well, George has shown that he 
has initiative. 

August seventeenth — I wonder if any living man is as happy 
in his work as I am. I dearly love it. I thank God daily for hav- 
ing permitted me to do what I have done as His steward and 
ambassador. My life is now in the late evening, but I am happy 
as a boy in the recall of the joys of yesterday. 

August ttventy-second — Well, I am very glad to say that we 
struck water last night and the test gives us thirty gallons per 
hour. The water is good and will be cold and clear. The well 
is 106 feet deep, of which forty feet is through soil and soft 
rock, and piped for that distance, and 66 feet is through hard 
granite. The long hoped for is accomplished. Thank God. The 
well we have been using for five years will be filled up and a 
cold storage room made of the top of it. 

AuguM tiventy-ninth — I have slipped off from our Company, 
Sara Harvin and Mattie (Hipp) Cunningham, to thank God just 
for a little moment for His guidance. I am not feeling well but 
there is a reason for it. Nor am I delighted with Orphanage 
conditions— but I have learned to thank God. 

August thirty-first — Today ends the fiscal year of the Thorn- 
well Orphanage. Moreover, it begins the 39th school year. I 



448 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

tremble as I think of the rapid flight of time. I had hoped long 
eer this to have had some visible demonstration to living men 
of the eternal life. Faith is weakening for multitudes — not in 
the living Christians, thank God, but in those who never were 
alive in Christ. Whether or not the graves shall give up their 
dead in my time, I know not, but God is assuredly preparing to 
give this world one awakening. The signs are plentiful of some 
coming revelation. As for myself, I am rejoicing in my work. 
I am very happy in all that I am doing and will press forward 
to do greater things yet. 

"Let thine eyes look right on, 

And thine eyelids straight before thee." 

Thank God at the rising of the sun, 

Thank Him in the heat of the noon-tide; 

And in the cool of the evening, say thou: "I love 

the Lord," 
For He hath heard my prayer; 
He hath given ear 
To the voice of my supplication. 



WHAT BECOMES OF THE ORPHANS? 

Among the orphanages that have occasion to be proud of the children 
who are reared in their particular orphanage, none have occasion to be 
more proud of their alumni than the Thonwell Orphanage. Dr. Jacobs is 
a genius in orphanage work, and we dare say that his equal hasn't been 
Ki""' ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^'^ wrought v^ronders in establishing orphanages, and 
able men have taken up the thread and carried the work on to a glorious 
success but Brother Jacobs not only founded his orphanage but has been 
the leading spirit in carrying it to its zenith of glory in his day. We do 
not wish to discourage our brethren to the south of us, but one thing we 
can as.sure them; they will never find another man as capable as the one 
they now have. When he is gone another will take his place but the best 
he can do will be to hold his ground and maintain the high state of effici- 
ency established by his predecessor. He will lack the wisdom and long 
years of experience so necessary in this work. Well may the new man 
congratulate himself if he can prevent the work from going backward while 
he IS getting experience. You who have felt the responsibility and trials 
in rearing four or five children to be useful men and women, have a slight 
conception of the responsibility resting upon the shoulders of the man who 
IH responsible for several hundred children. Very few men are capable 
01 assuming tnis responsibility. They have to be born for this work. Bro. 
Jacobs i.H a veteran in orphanage work and his methods are watched by 
every superintendent who is seeking sound information. Under Brother 
Jacobs inspiration and training one boy out of ten becomes a minister 
of the ^s'f'^Pt"^. Then, too, he raises his own faculty and equips them for 
the world while they are in the orphanages as inmates. Fourteen workers 
'"It of thirty-two are their old children. Out of twelve teachers, seven are 
"Id pupils. Out of seven foremen, four were reared in the orphanage and 
iw'. matrons and a secretary were also trained there. Thus it will be seen 
that about half of the workers of the Thornwell Orphanage were once in- 
mates of the orphanage, but were especially trained for the work and have 
A thoroiiL'h kMculodgc of the workings of the orphanage. Considering 



AGE SIXTY-NINE— 1912 449 

September thirteenth — Yesterday was the 25th anniversary 
of Florence's marriage. I dined with her. After dinner, Ferd, 
Elliot, Florence came by in Ferd's automobile and we rode over 
to Greenwood and back, 62 miles — the longest ride I have ever 
taken in an automobile. 

September fifteenth — I am reading now Roark's Psycholo- 
gy, Hunter's Biology and Dryer's High School Physical Geogra- 
phy — all at one time. I have just finished Abbott's life of Cortes 
and Dr. Funk's Widow's Mite (both of these second readings.) 

September tiventy-seventh — I closed up the accounts of the 
Thomas M. Jones Science Hall today with a total of $2,222 paid 
in full. It is a neat little structure and will certainly give us 
the hope of a museum within the next two years, if my life is 
spared for that long and I keep my eye sight . . . My congrega- 
tion this afternoon reached 400, all young people. About 75 col- 
lege boys were out. I certainly ought to be a happy man. I ex- 
pect to have good congregations all the winter through and my 
theme shall be Christ! Christ! Christ! 

October fifth — A perfectly beautiful day. I am praying 
today for God's richest blessing on the Thornwell Memorial. We 
elected and ordained to the deaconship in our church, three new 
deacons. We now have five elders and five deacons. Dear church, 
scion from the church of my first love and only service, I love 
you for my master's sake. I have nearly completed the 50th 
year of my w^ork ! God willing, I shall preach a memorial service 
on the 28th of May 1914 — my fiftieth year. 

October eighth— \Jv to date $800.00. We must have $3,000 
this month. We really need 3500.00. I spent yesterday one hour 
with God, three hours in office work, two in Museum work, two 
in building supervision, one in orphanage supervision, two in 
editorial work, eleven hours in all. And I was sick all the while. 

October eleventh — I find that the more I do, the more for 
me is there to be done. One might consider that I have done 
enough and now that I am as deaf as a post and nearly blind \j\ 
one eye and very near sighted in the other, I might decide to lay 
down the work but I am very grateful to say that the motto on 
the title page of this book is my motto for my life. My cry is 
rather for the leading hand of God to give me a chance to keep 
busier than that He should give me rest in His love. I may live 
many years yet. Oh, Lord, how I would hate to have it said of 

these facts it is a modest statement to say that this work pays at the 
Thornwell Orphanage. This ought to answer the question: "What be- 
comes of the children trained in the orphanage?" Onr Fatherless Ones. 



450 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

me "he outlived his usefulness". I have now as always in the 
past tried to keep busy by keeping other people busy. But so do 
all others who accomplish anything. If I build a home I do not 
have to put each brick in place with my own hands. I succeed 
by giving some others the brick laying while I tell them where 
to place the bricks. 

October twelfth — What a fearful loss is the loss of hearing. 
But thank God I can see — it is my joy to hear the authors of old 
time from the printed page. I will soon know more of those whom 
I have never known, than of those I am with daily. 

October eighteenth — The world is frightening with its pro- 
gress. This week's news, the Volturno burned in mid-Atlantic. 
Twelve steamers called to the rescue by wireless! The Zeppe- 
land LII exploding in mid-air and 28 men killed. 

October twentieth — I leave for Synod tomorrow, not having 
any good excuse except that of physical infirmity — so deaf that 
I won't be able to hear a word but I persist in going, even if I 
am only an old stump. And, dear Lord, go with me! 

October thirtieth — I have had more annoyances with recalci- 
trant matrons and teachers this season than ever before in the 
history of the orphanage. I do hope things will smooth down 

but — who can tell the ways of a woman How good God is 

and how ready ever to help his little ones. It frightens me to 
think that I must get between $10,000 and $11,000 during No- 
vember and December. 

November fifth — My deafness is now about complete but God 
is with me. 

November .sixth — November is usually a very good month for 
receipts but up to date we have had but little for support, nothing 
for the stock-room, nothing for the museum, nothing for the 
library, nothing for the endowment. "Wait on the Lord, be of 
good courage. He will strengthen thy heart." 

December second — Dillard dropped in to dinner with us to- 
day from Atlanta — (pretty long drop) . What joy it gives me to 
see my boys. He left today for Spartanburg. 



Dour old Dr. W. P. Jacobs, the faithful and beloved president of Thorn- 
wHI (' ajfe, the min who is known from one end of the country to the 

?u a " J" '"*^ ^^^ 'stepfather' of so many children, is in attendance upon 
tho Svnod. Dr. JncohH is one of the most distin^^uished men in the South 
Synml, and he is* looked up to with Rreat admiration and love by 
. , If. lie was readily noticeable as was said by one of his friends 

In the Synod. *wearinjr hi.n telephone on his head.' this as a result of the 
serious accident that happened to him at Washington two years ajfo. Dr. 



AGE SIXTY.NINE— 1912 451 

December sixth — I am praying, trusting, working. That is 
Ciod's plan for the building of the Orphanage. 

December thirteenth — I am perfectly deaf. I feel that this is 
the result of the accident at Washington. With my ear-phone, 
I make out a little of what people are saying. Lord, as I can't 
hear any side of the case, help me to be considerate of both sides 
of any case. 

December sixteenth — How different the Clinton of today is 
from the Clinton I knew in 1863. Then it was an unincorporated 
hamlet. Now it is a city. I look out of my study window and see 
children at play and massive buildings and busy life. I am glad 
God has permitted me to live to this time and to see so much. I 
have just returned from a walk about the Orphanage. What a 
fine "institution" it has become. I hope and pray for good suc- 
cess in carrying out the plans we have agreed on. 

Decertiber seventeenth — Today found me in a close place with 
more drafts out in the bank than I had cash in the bank. I had 
to hustle, as I never have overdrawn an account yet. . . Our re- 
ceipts are $600 behind last year and prospects very slim. The 
outlook for the Orphanage is very slim and that notwithstanding 
an immense amount of printing and circulars. I am seriously 
concerned. 

December tweyity-fifth — It still looks as if December would 
leave us $500. at least, short of last year but I am still hoping 
and trusting. 

December twenty-sixth — We are still short of last year and 
have only four days more and those are always thin days. But 
I am still hoping and trusting. 

December thirtieth — The receipts have wonderfully improv- 
ed the past few days. I am greatly encouraged. I am leaning 
hard upon God. 

December thirty-first — A little but beautiful snow-shower 
on this last day of 1913. God has blessed me and given me what 
I asked for — $7100.00. It surprises me beyond my expectation. 
A week ago I had less than $5500.00. In addition, I have received 
$1100.00 for the endowment fund. I am closing the year with 
a paean to Almighty God! Taking it all in all, 1913 has been a 
marvelous year; in building; in receipts, in health, in blessings. 
Florida cottage, Science Hall, Lesh Infrmary. Praise be to God 
for His great goodness. 

Jacobs is the founder and president of Thornwell Orphanage, founder of 
the Presbyterian College, and pastor of the Clinton Church for 47 years. 
He is a great man and is greatly beloved." 



CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR 

1914— Age 71 

January sixteenth — I went to Charleston Tuesday, getting 
in to Room 90, Argyle, by ten-thirty, making a real nice trip. But 
the next day, Wednesday, was cold. Still I walked down Meeting 
Street to the Battery, spending a half Hour then on the deep blue 
sea. I also walked up as far as my old college and the old King 
Street home, where Aimar's drug store still holds forth, then 
down to the second church, and into the graveyard to my bro- 
ther's and mother's grave. I found a blizzard on the streets. 

I missed the best of the trip, though, the roaming about the 
city, because of the cold. 

January twenty -eighth — Up to this date I have received al- 
most the amount I asked the Lord for during January. We are 
having a good week with the building and a bad one with the 
matrons. My 18th resignation since September first, today. 

January tiventy-ninth — By God's good mercy, we have re- 
ceived, up to this date, $3,033 for the support fund and this was 
what I asked of the Master. Moreover, this afternoon Mrs. Lesh 
very graciously offers the $2,000 necessary to complete the Lesh 
Infirmary. God be praised. 

January thirtieth — Our January has been just such weather 
as to make me happy. I love life. I love the summer weather. I 
love God's wonderful creations in the way of flowers and all 
other strange and beautiful things. I thank God that I am alive 
and I pray that His goodness may be my portion. 

February eighteenth — Yesterday, Mollie and I came over to 
Atlanta. Dillard met us at the train and brought us out to his 
house which is eight miles from Union Station, just the distance 
of Riverside from my home. And yet his business is all in the 
heart of Atlanta! After breakfast we walked out to the site of 
Oglethorpe University (God prosper it), but did not get as far 
as Silver Lake. The grounds are ample and beautiful and the 
estimated value is $100,000 for its 75 acres, just half of the size 
of T. O. farm. All these Atlanta people are enthused with the 
Atlanta spirit and filled with the speculative spirit of Atlanta 
real estate. The city is aiming to be a half million city in the life 
time of the present generation. My interest in the city revolves 
about my two snn*^. about the dear friends that support the 

462 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 453 

Thornwell Orphanage, and the future hope of the Oglethorpe 
Universit}'. 

March third — It was as I feared — a sheer fall of a $1000 in 
February. I am earnestly praying for $3000 receipts in March. 
I ought to have $4000 but I can get on with $3000. I shall give 
the next 6 months to real work — am still sick. 

March twenty-second — A heavy snow on the twenty-second 
of March! 

March twenty-sixth — I am trusting the Lord with all my 
heart. Trials always bring me to my Master. I am afraid that I 
am always more distressed over the sins of others than my own. 

March thirty-first — I closed up the receipts today with 
$3425. This is a mighty fine March receipts. It recoups some- 
what our February losses. Thank God. 

Apinl fifth — God is blessing the support fund. Over $600. 
We have gotten into the maelstrom of resignations. The im- 
portant thing is to find matrons and teachers who love the Orph- 
anage and stand by it. 

April eighth — Thirteen of us organized Enoree Presbytery 
in 1878. We have organized 37 churches — in addition to the 30 
we began with, trebled our church membership from 1840 to 
5520, and doubled our ministerial membership. So God has pros- 
pered us. I now am set off with Laurens county to form S. C. 
Presbytery. 

April twentieth — Forty-eight years ago, on the twentieth of 
April at 7:30 P.M. I was married to the dearest, sweetest woman 
that ever lived. Hardly fourteen years later, she was taken from 
me. Oh, Mary, Mary, darling, I love you yet and my prayer is 
that God would give us to each other again in His own good day. 

ApHl twenty-second — Trusting and waiting and praying. 
Lord help me. Guide, keep, Save. 

April twenty-seventh — Eternity is not far from me or any 
of these about me. 

May tenth — I went around as a spectator to the 50th an- 
niversary of the first church Sabbath School this morning. I 
imagined myself a returned spirit to see the things that shall be. 

May thirty-first — I preached this morning at the first 
Church, my 50th Anniversary sermon. "God forbid that I should 
glory" on Gal. 6:14. Ferd was much pleased with the sermon. 



464 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

Said it was "the greatest sermon he had ever heard." I appre- 
ciate my son's valuation but as for me, — it was a sad time, but 
the sorrow was all my own in my inability to do what I would. 
I am a war-horse chained by his leg to the post of the stable door 
. . . .Well dear Lord, here I am. You have a mighty poor old ser- 
vant, but he is yours for anything you want of him. I will work 
till Jesus comes and then I'll follow home. . . .Dillard and Thorn- 
well both came over from Atlanta to hear my sermon. I also had 
a very large congregation. My own boys were all there, enthusi- 
astic in their praise for my sermon. Ferd and Dill averred that 
it was the best sermon they had ever heard, which was mighty 
kind of them. Well, I would have hated it if they had thought it 
the worst, for I wanted to leave the good people with a good taste 

in their mouths And now, Lord, what next? I am ready to 

go on to my 60th, my 70th year of service. I don't want to 
stop till I reach the place, where it says — ''No thoroughfare." . . . 
Dirige vias meas, domine Jesu. 

June fifth — Trusting in God and moving right on. The Mas- 
ter will do all things right, and bring us out into a broad place. 
I am expecting Him to give me help every time that I ask Him 
for it. 

June tiventy -second — It is a good thing to trust in the Lord 
and to do it fearlessly. Take this great endowment puzzle for in- 
stance, that the Board has placed on me. I am in my turn, lay- 
ing the matter on my Lord. How He intends to raise it, I know 
not, but the task, too great for me, is but a trifle to Him. So, 
I will trust and wait — and not be afraid. Help Lord, Thou know- 
est what to do. 

June twenty-seventh — "Thou art a good God that heareth 
prayer." My prayer for the funds needed for this month has been 
heard, — and answered. Why should I fear when I have such a 
God! 

June twenty-eif/kth — I came renj near fainting in the pulpit 
this morning, then a rush of blood to my head, — but I didn't and 
forced my way through to the end. The past week was one of 
great anxiety and continuous work, owing to the conditions at 
the Orphanage. 

July tenth — I will have to leave the joys of Riverside today, 
a« I am to have a visit from States and Laura, and their only 
son. It will be a great pleasure to see them, and to let them tell 
of the great West. 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 455 

JuUj twelfth — This coming week will be a busy one, as I will 
go to Riverside on Monday and will stay for 10 days. Dillard, 
Thornwell and States will all be here, within the next ten or 12 
days. 

July twenty -third — We had a delightful evening yesterday. 
Ferd, Elliott, Clara, Thornwell, all came out and spent the even- 
ing with us. As both Dill and States are coming to town this 
week, I will go in tomorrow and will not be out here again. We 
had a beautiful view of the planet Venus last night. 

July twenty-sixth — The boys are all in and I am happy. I 
preached twice today. 

July twenty-ninth — The Master has heard my prayer and is 
giving me the money I need for July. We are not discouraged. 
All my children have been up to see their old father. States and 
Thornw^ell are here now. Dillard has just left. 

August first — The prospect of a fearful war in Europe has 
closed the hearts of the people towards the orphans. August 
begins dreadfully. Nothing coming into the treasury. A num- 
ber of our investments are failing to pay interest, which is the 
worst yet. But these are bright days too. We closed July with 
$1600 in the treasury against $400 last year! Thank God. The 
Lesh Infirmary is being finished off and the plumbers will get 
aw^ay next week. Things are not moving well in our shop. Noth- 
ing doing but salary drawing. 

August fourth — The failure of receipts is something ter- 
rible. We didn't get a single $10 gift in the thirty or more that 
made up the small amount in our hands. 

AuguH thirteenth — We had a great company of my children 
yesterday — States, Laura and little States; Elliott and Thomas; 
Florence; and their brother and sister, and little Edgar. They 
dined w^ith us and enjoyed the day. 

August fifteenth — I had a dream tonight while they w^ere 
singing sweetly on the piazza. I dreamed that I woke up in an- 
other w'orld. I was alone. It was very beautiful but I saw no 
one. Then I felt a presence by me. **0," said I, "the very one 
I was longing for — how did you know, my Lord, that I wanted 
you above all others." "And why". He asked, "did you want 
me?" "Because you saved my soul." "I thought," He answer- 
ed, "that you were a great theologian and could split doctrinal 
hairs. Where did you learn it all?" "I am a child," I answered 
"and know nothing. I have studied the Holy Scriptures all my 



456 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

life and have only heard four little short words." "And what 
are they?" He asked. **The first was the shortest of all — G-o-d, 
and yet with all my searching I have not found Him out to per- 
fection." *True," He answered, "and never will, but what is the 
next?" *'Life." I have sought it above everything else" — And 
you have found it," He interrupted, "It is I." how I clung 
to Him at that. "And the next?" "Love!" and He quickly ans- 
wered, "And finding that you found all the rest." At that, I 
paused to think, whether I had truly found this wonderful basic 
thing of Love. "But," He said "was there not yet another word?" 
I replied, "Yes, and it was the longest and hardest of all. It was 
Serve!" "A good word and well found. Was that all?" "Alas, 
my Master," I said, "That was all my lesson." "No," said He, 
"there is yet one more word, it is just as short and beautiful as 
the others." Thereupon, He took me by the hand, and led me 
unto my eternal home, saying — "He giveth to his beloved, — 
Rest" .... Was not that a singular and beautiful dream? 

August seventeenth — I had a strange little dream last night, 
the result probably of a gift of a limb and flowers of the wild 
sensitive plant. The leaves were folded tightly, the flowers were 
withered. I dreamed I was suddenly and safely transferred to 
the level floor of one of those deep "craters" in the moon. I 
found that there was some air and moisture there for I stood on 
the edge of a vast plain and as far as I could see for many miles 
the plains were a great mass of flowers, all colors, mainly pur- 
ple, and each flower on a stalk some 18 inches high. A sweet 
soft melody was coming from them, much to my amazement. I 
was .standing among the flowers, and stooping down, I plucked 
one and pinned it on my coat, but that act ended the melody and 
wild shrieks arose in ever increasing volume. The whole wide 
field of beauty was in a perfect paroxysm of excitement. Pres- 
ently a pellet of stone struck me and then another and another. 
I noticed then that each flower was provided with tendrils and 
that with these, they were hurling the bits of stone at me. Then 
the whole air was filled with missiles and I was driven out upon 
the bare waste of the mountain side, while the shrieks subsided 
into a hiss and after a little while all was calm and the melody 
began again .... Here is the answer to the question! Do flow- 
ers fool? 

Auf/iiftt twentieth — Cassie is a treasure. She is saving me 
an immense amount of work by way of getting the Infirmary 
ready for oponiiig. She will be one of my best workers. States 
left us yesterday. Laura is still here. I have enjoyed States' 
vi^if vnrv much. 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 467 

August twerit]/-seco7id — That awful war in Europe is hard 
on the orphans. Only $1,100 to date. I thank God that our 
country isn't in it. 

August twenty-fifth — In spite of all our trials, God is still 
with us. We are just trusting. We had a pleasant little day of 
it today with Laura, Elliott. Heavy showers. 

September first — Notwithstanding the war, the receipts for 
August were a few dollars in excess of August 1913. For that I 
thank God. Moreover we will have a little in the treasury 
against a deficit last year. 

September fourth — Thorn well delivered the address at the 
opening of the Lesh Infirmary this afternoon and I at the open- 
ing of the schools, this afternoon. 

September ninth — A check for $50 from Tom O'Reilly, one 
of the old Orphanage boys; the election of Nelson Harris, (an- 
other one of them) to the Legislature, and the beautiful weather, 
has made this a good day. 

September tenth — A delightful letter from Marie Anneberg. 
She is on her way home from Japan. 

September nineteenth — Only $800 received up to date in- 
stead of $1800 which we ought to have. The Orphanage is in 
a desperate fix. I am receiving no more children at present, 
not even to fill vacancies as they occur. I am receiving only $10 
to $25 a day. The price of everything is increasing. The World- 
war is playing havoc with our orphans. 

October eleventh — Every sermon, with me, is a work of art; 
I try to have a full picture in mind before each discourse, both of 
its method and its purpose. I expect it to make an impression 
and am always dissatisfied and surprised when it does not. 

October seventeenth — As nobody ever tells me that I preach- 
ed good sermons, I really don't know what other folks thought of 
them, but I have an idea that I preached two good sermons to- 
day. At least I had fine congregations. 

October twenty-first — I am grateful to God that our nation 
is in no way responsible for and has no hand in that terrible 
European conflict. There is so much utter heartlessness about 
it that one cannot but regard it as an evidence of the diabolism 
of militarism. Oh Lord, let there be no more war to the end 
of the world. 

November seventh — I have had courage given to me, in spite 
of these hard times, to pray to our God, not only for the support 



458 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

of the orphans, but also for some large gift to make glad my 
heart and to increase my faith. Lord, hear my prayers and re- 
joice my soul and bless the orphans. 

November eighth — We have another scare on hand. Ben- 
nett writes from the Synod of Georgia that some lady has left 
$10,000 to the Synod for the founding of an Orphans' Home. 
If they fail to found the Home the money is to come to Thorn- 
well. If the Synod decides to found the home it will take away 
our right arm of support. Georgia gives now a full third of our 
support — above $10,000 a year, and with this sum she can care 
for at least 100 orphans. As for us — we will lose that $10,000 
annually and that will mean that we must cut down our number 
to 200. 

December first — I closed up November out of debt and hav- 
ing raised $3400. This is a direct answer to prayer, a prayer by 
which I was to have direct revelation of God's presence with 
me. It surprises me beyond my hopes .... But God can do any- 
thing He will, while my business is just to set still and see the 
salvation of God. . . . Our last catalog shows our roll of child 
supporters as follows: South Carolina, 151; Georgia, 99; Flor- 
ida, 26; other states, 34; Total, 310. Total enrollment of child- 
ren, 330. Georgia is the only state that supported all of it's 
children. From Georgia we received fully $9,000, nearly one- 
third of our total receipts. 

December fifth — Black clouds were a heavy all day coat to 
God's skies while beneath the clouds a cold light wind chilled to 
the bone. But it was a sweet day in the house of God. My even- 
ing sermon held the congregation closely. The Session's meeting 
was a good one; two additions and an infant. Holy communion 
season, under the lamp-light touched all hearts. Forty addi- 
tions to our church since April. God is surely blessing the dear 
church. 

1915— Age 72 

January firnt — At one time I had no hope of seeing this day 
and this year — 1915. I never thought that such great world 
events would have come in my time. I am glad to God that I 
am alive and my heart fills up with grateful emotions as I rea- 
lize that the Lord God is dealing with me. 

Janiuiry sixth — What amazing times these are in which we 
are living. As my daily papers are brought in I read with deep- 
est intrrpst the astounding news from Europe. The wonderful 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 469 

world conflagration is the one great topic. We are ourselves his- 
toric because of the place in the age that we occupy, and daily 
the question is — "What next?' 



•>»> 



January twenty-third — I reached home last night from At- 
lanta. Dillard met me at the train at 8:30 P.M. and in Mrs. 
Mclntyre's auto I was taken out to Dill's home. At the station 
Marie Annaburg and Bessie Dunwoody greeted me lovingly. 
Next morning — 10 o'clock I went down to the N. Avenue Church 
where I met scores of friends. I was on the platform, donned 
in cap and gown, listening to the exercises and closing it with 
a benediction. I also, after lunch with the ladies, went out to 
the corner store ceremonial. I did not attend the meeting of the 
Board of Trustees, but rejoiced to know that Thornwell was 
elected President of the University. On Friday morning I vis- 
ited Grady Hospital and met Cassie and all the rest of our Or- 
phanage girls. I am at home again and may go to Columbia 
next week, and to Tampa, Fla., the week following. I am very 
tired, however and far from the fix I ought to be in to go trav- 
elling. 

February seventh — Tomorrow is Mrs. McCormick's birthday 
(80th) I sent her a telegram of good wishes. 

March second — Brother Jones is holding a meeting this week 
with Dr. Lyons in the pulpit. I expect to attend every morning. 
I grieve that I can not hear his sermons. 

March su'f/i — This has been one of the bad days. Very lit- 
tle money received. Now anxiety about some of the Orphanage 
investments. I worry too much about money matters, — but I 
am exceedingly desirous of having all my matters absolutely 
straight when I have to bid goodbye to this little world. Also, 
I dread the blame of having made any bad investments. But I 
trust God in every thing and place all our business in His hands. 

March eighth — We are having bright beautiful days. The 
sun was up this A. M., when we went to prayer. 

March ninth — I get very sore at heart at times for that is 
my temperament, but I don't allow it to show in my face, but in 
the heart it surely is and that will explain these Journals: — a 
word will send a storm to my heart and a sudden thought, born 
of some pre-meditated calamity will come like a blow upon my 
head. I have crossed multitudes of bridges before I ever came to 
them. I am likely to cross more, I fear. I dread things that 
hurt my loved ones even more than those that threaten my self. 
Everything is today as sweet and calm as this lovely weather. 



460 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

I ought to have my heart full of happiness, and yet I will allow 
little things to worry me. 

March sixteenth — I had a birthday yesterday. It was my 
73rd. Evidently the years do pass swiftly by. I am glad I am 
still alive. For my children's sake I want to pass my 80th year. 
It will encourage my children. They will see that life is possible 
even with a very poor, infirm body; and that life is worth-while 
in old age. My friends sent me in many flowers and sweets. I 
am, very glad that the flowers came. They are appropriate to 
my springtime birthday. I dined with Florence. Ferd and 
Thornwell were both there. Last night Ferd gave an *'exposi- 
tion" at his new office. I attended and enjoyed it. 

March twenty-eighth — I enjoyed preaching today. I spoke 
with my old time vigor and to large congregations. 

March thirty-first — March has been a great success as well 
as February. Our God sent us $3400 this month, even more than 
in February. He sent me exactly what I asked for. I am em- 
boldened to ask for $2500 in April. The ground was white with 
snow this morning. A very late snow. 

Avril fourth — I have had a sad-at-heart day all because I 
have parted with a dear old friend. All the light in my left 
eye has faded out, the one covered with a cataract. But thank 
God, I can still see with my right eye. I can still use it for read- 
ing and writing and that is a great and wonderful comfort. How 
long it will last me and whether the other can be given back to 
me fills me with anxiety but I will wait for God's time, fully 
assured that when He has shut me off from hope and happiness, 
here, He will give me a great and wide door into his kingdom. 
But today brought me pleasure too. I preached well, with a good 
strong, clear voice, two good sermons. I received three mem- 
bers into the church, so beginning the year well. Oh, Lord, help 
thou me. 

April eighth — A visit from Dill made me very glad. 

April fifteenth — Presbytery has met and adjourned. I 
preached the opening sermon by Brother Jones' request. During 
Presbytery I had a visit from Brother Ansel, which I enjoyed 
grreatly. I am still fighting the grip. 

April twentieth — Just fifty years ago this day I was married 
to Mary Jane DilLud! O how I loved her. And now the years 
that have passed, filled as they have been with struggles and suc- 
cesses, almost terrify me. I look forward, but the sun is riding 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 461 

low and the horizon is full of dust. Yet, beyond the sun is the 
welcome into a finer day, and thus return to love and trust, im- 
measurable. 

May tenth — The horror of the destruction of the Lusitania 
and drowning of 1500 men, women and children passengers, by 
the Germans is filling all minds and all hearts and is the topic 
of all conversation .... Mrs. Roach writes that Miss Pattie 
Thornweli remembered the Orphanage in her will . . . Today 
was memorial day. I was invited to offer the prayers and ben- 
edictions. Clinton seems to be doing me honor, this season. 

May nineteenth — I am more and more dependent upon my 
children for the pleasures of life. Ferd and Florence, and Dil- 
lard are a wonderful comfort to me. States and Thornweli are 
a joy to me, but I see them seldom. They passed through last 
night on their way to the Assembly. 

May thirtieth — I thank thee Lord, in that thou hast made 
our support fund to outsum the preceding year by $2500. We 
received thru thy graciousness, $34,800. I beseech thee, help us 
to reach next year's $35,000, and to use these funds more wisely 
and economically and with better results. And Lord grant great 
things for our Investment Fund. This year thou gavest us near- 
ly $5000. Let next year give us very much more, and give us 
good success in our receipts and investments. This is a money- 
prayer, Lord, but out of thy great goodness give us good phy- 
sical and spiritual blessings, also. So let thy great hand guide 
us, doing for us even better than we have asked and thine shall 
be all the praise and ours the happiness. 

June first — This afternoon, I attended the dedication ser- 
vices of the Wm. P. Jacobs Science Hall and Library, — at pres- 
ent one of the finest buildings in the city. I feel the honor. I 
am much interested in the event, tho I heard none of the flatter- 
ing speeches. My one thought was "What hath God wrought!" 
He has made the college to glorify His name and even to glorify 
me somewhat. "He maketh the wrath of man to praise Him!" 
When I thought of the splendid buildings grouped on the cam- 
pus and compared it with the trifling early days of the college — 
I rejoiced. I remember, tho, how I fought for it and at last 
was fought against, but "alls well that ends well." 

Jinie third — I give an hour a day to work in the Museum. 
There are five or six thousand specimens and it requires very 
considerable stud>' to keep even a hemi-demi-semi arrangement 
in order. As I study and work over those old dead fossils I won- 



462 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

der who will take care of them when I am gone. It is a ques- 
tion, — will we be ever able to provide a curator. 

June ninth — Good news is the legacy of $5000 building from 
Mrs. Kennedy of Atlanta. 

July fourteenth — We buried Mollie, yesterday, at 6 in the 
evening. A lovely evening. God smiled upon her, — a beautiful 
service, men and women mourned. All have been good to me. 

Jiihj fifteenth — My children did everything for Mollie and 
myself that could be done. Oh how they petted and loved me. 
Ferd, Elliott, Clara, Florence, Dillard were angels of mercy. 

July tiventy-fifth — I have been rushing here and there to 
find some solid proof of the everlasting life. In all the philoso- 
phies, I have found nothing to satisfy. So I have decided to rest 
my hopes on the simple promises of God's word, especially as 
uttered by our Lord Jesus, — and this brings me peace and rest. 

July twenty-sixth — I preached earnestly yesterday morning 
on the temptations of Jesus. States gave the children a talk in 
the afternoon on 'Tolyanna." 

August eleventh — This morning, Thornwell took his break- 
fast with us. Mrs. Link called shortly after breakfast, and we 
enjoyed an auto ride to the new Oglethorpe building. I am de- 
lighted with its plan and its construction. Certainly the new 

"We believe we represent the sentiment of all our readers who in mind 
and heart join with the people of Clinton in a feeling of gratitude for the 
life of the greatest man in Laurens county, Dr. W. P. Jacobs, President of 
the Thornwell Orphanage. For exactly a half century he has labored for 
his Master and for the helpless little ones. 

Last Monday 300 orphans and others joined together to pay tribute 
to the Pastor Emeritus of the Clinton Presbyterian church, founder of 
Clinton College and the Thornwell Orphanage and "father of Clinton," 
who had reached his seventy-second birthday. In this triple capacity, to 
say nothing of the hundreds of other good things he has done, success has 
crowned his efforts in every particular. The magnificent church, college 
and orphanage buildings speak silently of his great achievements while the 
thousands of children, men and women, who are or have been the happy 
recipients of his love and tender care, are living noble monuments to the 
grreat man who has made them what they are. 

n<* has been the pioneer of great undertakings and yet as the years 

glided by he has kept abreast with modern times. In all these years he 

has been strong enough to battle against great conflicts and impediments, 

' * ' nder enough to be easily reached by the smallest child in that great 

• lion. 

Tho Herald joins with thousands of others who sincerely and prayer- 
^ " ' " ' Dr. Jacobs many more years of a life that is every day 

sings from on high and crowned with the lives of a mul- 
titude of others who are better and happier because he has lived." — Lan- 
rrnsvillc Herald. 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 463 

university is beginning well. After going thru it, we visited 
Silver Lake, which, in the opinion of its students, will be a de- 
cided acquisition. 

August twelfth — Yesterday afternoon, Mary Feebeck, Kate 
Upchurch, Louise Happoldt came up to see me and I greatly en- 
joyed their visit. It recalled the old times. Between their visit 
and the heavy rains, I had no time to get out into town. My plan 
is to take dinner with Thornwell today and then to get home. 

August twenty-ninth — All of the churches closed this morn- 
ing, and accepted the invitation to attend the opening service at 
the beautiful new Methodist church. Strange to say, mine was 
the only church not closed, and I was the only minister there! 
Mr. Scott spoke for my children. The Methodists have certain- 
ly a very handsome and every way satisfactory church, but I 
still think the 1st Presb\i:erian church the best and handsomest 
in the city. 

September sixth — Yesterday, we admitted eight to union 
with the church. God is giving me souls for him. 

September fifteenth — The good news reached us today, that 
yesterday's election placed South Carolina in the Prohibition col- 
umn. 

September sixteenth — Our college opened formally this 
morning. It is getting to be a great institution. My old jour- 
nals show how I worked and prayed for it in times gone by, and 
God has prospered it. 

September seventeenth — We are about to leave Charleston, 
Cassie and I, for Edisto Island. We have "done" Charleston, 
today. We visited the Battery, the Charleston Library, College, 
Museum. We took in my old church, Aimar's drug store. Cita- 
del square, drug stores and ice cream parlors — and I visited my 
brother Sam's grave in the old 2nd church yard. It does one good 
to revisit the old city, which I try to do every year. But I must 
say that it is always with a little lowering of the physical ther- 
mometer. Charleston is improving. Dr. Sprunt is the only Char- 
lestonian I have met. But I could have met many, had I been 
willing. Dislike to make people talk loud, keeps me from visit- 
ing; and in addition, I can not be a mummy. The deaf man 
must talk and he always talks too much . . . We, (Cassie and I) 
took the train for Edisto at 3:10. Ed Lee kindly put me on the 
train. The boat ride down to Edisto was just fine ... I preach- 
ed Jer. 31 :3, a grand text. If the congregation liked the sermon 
it was more than I did. The truth is I lost the thread of my dis- 



464 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

course, — and thundered. This is the only time I have ever 
preached on Edisto, — and it may be the last. The trip is a right 
hard one to take. 

September tiventy-first — Edisto is separated by wide spaces 
of salt water from the main, in some places as much as 8 or 10 
miles. It is wonderfully fertile, and is protected by a sand bank 
from the inroads of the sea, but the sand bank, which was once 
Edings bay, is rapidly being swept away, and in fifty years Edis- 
to, itself, will be receiving the hammering blows of old ocean. 

October fifth — This is the fortieth anniversary of the open- 
ing of the Orphanage. All these years, Lord, thy hand hath 
led me. I am still trusting in thee, with my whole heart. On 
the 1st, Gov. Ansel was with us, according to the appointment 
and order of the Board. He stayed with me. Fortunately I 
heard nothing of the ''bouquets" that were thrown at me, by one 
of South Carolina's most popular governors. It is a great priv- 
ilege to be allowed to work for God, for forty years, among the 
orphans but I have not lost my head because of it . . . Thornwell 
is running against a snag. Somewhere in our church there are 
bitter enemies of my family, who under the pretense of sancti- 
fied Presbyterianism would crush out the church itself if there- 
by they could crush out me and my family. The fact that I go 
right straight on is only an aggravation of their animosity. It 
seems to be the plan now of these parties to outlaw Oglethorpe 
University. The same attempt was made to boycott Clinton Col- 
lege; the Orphanage; and the Southern Presbyterian when Ferd 
had it. "No weapon framed against Thee shall prosper!" God 
knows that we are not working for self but for the good of the 
church and the church outlives and out-pasts, in spite of all 
malice and evil. Oglethorpe will prosper, just as Clinton has 
prospered. Some day, Thornwell will be classed among the 
great men of the church. 

October seventh — A Doctor Wilson of North Carolina is 
sneering at our article by Thornwell entitled "The Presbyterian- 
ism of Oglethorpe," and insinuating that it is a farce, and that, 
until it is proven, the church should shut out the Institution 
from it's pulpits. The jealousy and spite of a multitude of our 
ministers is beyond comprehension! Unfortunately for such 
people, the horse is gone, it is too late to lock the stable doors. 

October ninth — The college boys are out in force at my ser- 
vices today. My sermons were on hackneyed topics, if gospel 
topics ever will be hackneyed. Previous prayer will make even 
a poor sermon, effective. What a privilege it is to preach the 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 465 

gospel ''even down to old a^e." I preach to a lovinpr crowrl of 
young people. 

Ootober thirteenth — I have just been reading Bro. Doug- 
lass's estimate of the order of the College property. He puts 
it at $300,000, but there is a debt of $30,000 on that. 

October fourteeitth — Our endowment fund has now reached 
the goodly sum of $175,000. We are travelling steadily onward 
to the good goal of $250,000. Indeed, there are pending legacies 
that would even now reach that sum, but they are not due as yet. 
We are getting, even now, well up to a valuation of a htilf mil- 
lion for all our holdings. I knew God would do this for us, and 
there shall yet be "greater things than these." How often I 
have gloried in living and working for others. I really believed 
that I was not caring for myself, but how my eyes have been 
opened by God's dealings with me. 

October tiventy-seco7id — My days are passing by very rap- 
idly, — but I am happy and contented. 

October thirtieth — I asked the Lord for $3,000 this month. 
He sent me $3014. 

November fourth — Unless the Lord comes to our help and 
that quickly, we will be over head and ears in debt. Lord, we 
are opening the doors, to more and more of thy little orphan 
children. It does not look wise, but they are needing food and 
shelter . . . The people are finding out the Orphanage, — how well 
it deals with the fatherless! And they are crowding their or- 
phans in upon us. 

November nineteenth — Yesterday I was about town all day 
making a few little purchases and having Dr. Lokey to look 
after my eyes. The city is a very busy scene of life; and as live- 
ly as a frightened ant-hill. I was up in both Dill's and Thorn- 
welTs offices. Dill's is now in the Candler building. 

December sixth — I have the feeling today, that God is going 
to bless the Orphanage. How I do not know but in some good 
way, I am sure. In fact he has blessed us today. 

December seventh — How quickly the Lord blesses those who 
trust in Him. He sent me one thousand dollars this morning, 
the legacy of Miss Pattie Thornwell (Hayne) for the endow- 
ment. 

December fifteenth — I have just buen reading Prof. Wil- 
mer's philosophy of religion — a book crammed full of big round 
words, — but it is a pleasure to see how thoroughly he agrees with 



466 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

my idea of the continued immanence of God in everything, and 
of evolution, as only the result of the divine will, operating every- 
where. He always asserted the omnipresence, omniscience, and 
omnipotence of God, but he believed in him potentially and not 
as actually seeing, willingly doing everything. It is God the 
real; not God the ideal, that I believe in. 

December twentieth — I always recall on this 20th December 
an experience in the St. Andrew's Hall, on the same date in 1860, 
when South Carolina left the union. I'm glad she got back, long 
ago, tho I am proud of her courage and her leadership in those 
dread days. We were making history. 

1916— Age 73 

January first — I am not going to begin this new year with 
a spasm of tears over my weakness and infirmities. I am thank- 
ing God this day, for His answer to my prayers. 

January tenth — I have just been urging my heavenly Father, 
to make some very helpful addition to our Endowment Fund, 
before the Board meets next June. My thanks go to Him for 
$13,500 received this far. He could easily make it $25,000. 
Twice before we have had famous years. I am eagerly hoping 
to run up our receipts to $200,000 for the fund this year. I am 
growing old and I am anxious in my time to have our Orphan- 
age endowed to the full sum of $250,000. If we had this, we 
would have a good foundation for our beloved Institution. 

January seventeenth — "It is better to trust in the Lord than 
to put confidence in" millionaires. 

January twentieth — The frequent suicides described in our 
papers, lead me to wonder at the lack of tenacity in such a mul- 
titude of people. I have so many infirmities but they would 
never drive me to take my own life. 

January twenty-fourth — My eyes are in bad shape again. 
I fear I am threatened with another attack of eye-strain. I have 
been sick for three months and yet have been reading and writ- 
ing for two hours a day. I must rest my eyes for a few days, but 
how to do it, I don't know. My lost hearing drives me to my 
eyes in companionship. Indeed I am in a strait, but God is good. 

February seventh — Thornwell is on thorns about this attack 
on him by Sweets, Alexander and Company. Well, the attack 
wa.s an awfully mean one, and most uncalled for . . . "South 
('arolina was the fir.st state to secede from the Union and Wm. 
Pi'inHT Jacobs, then a student of Charleston College (but now 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 467 

Rev. Dr. Jacobs, President of Thornwell Orphanage of Clinton) 
reported that fact to the Charleston Mercury." I clipped this 
from the Afro-American Presbyterian. We go far to get glory 
and in this case it is the very heart of Africa. 

February ninth — Nine years ago, I found that I was suf- 
fering from a cataract in one eye. Five years ago, I discovered 
that the other was also affected. As yet, I am able to see, but 
my second eye is growing milky, — and I am now facing the fear 
of blindness. Eye no. 1 is not changing any. Whether it is ready 
for operation or not, I do not know, but I will soon, for I am 
ging over for an examination. 

February tenth — I have all our business in fine condition. 
Neither I nor the Orphanage is due a penny to any living soul. 

February thirteenth — I am asking God, that this very month 
of February He would give me some gift for the endowment. 

February seventeenth — I am growing fearfully lazy. Owing 
to the condition of my eyes, I have to cut out all afternoon work. 
I do my work before 12 noon and after 7 p.m. In the afternoon 
I read just a little, I exercise some, I walk about the Orphanage 
grounds, I yawn, I take a nap, I think — think — think. I ought to 
be ashamed of myself. At present it looks as if I would be as 
good as blind within a few months. 

February twentieth — I received on yesterday the notice of 
one legacy for $300, the payment of one for $21 and the no- 
tice of another for $1000. This is the first time that this has 
happened in all the history of the Orphanage, — all of it was for 
the endowment. I was distressed and anxious, and I asked God 
to relieve me in just this convincing way, and He did it. I am 
justified in believing in the presence of God with me. 

February twenty-first — Yesterday I preached morning and 
afternoon at my own church; I conducted the 7 a.m., service. I 
delivered an address to the Y. P. S. C. E., 1st church at 6 :30. 
I also attended and took part in the preaching service at 8 o'clock. 
Five services in all. I am surely getting stronger. My voice 
was strong and clear. I felt well and I slept well la.st night. 

March seventeenth — The young people make quite a fuss 
over my 74th stathmos on the journey of life. I was in hope it 
would have passed quietly. 

March twenty-second — Atlanta. Yesterday I went down to 
see Dr. Lokey and he gave me the information I wanted. He 
thinks I can have the operation performed, if I so desire it, 



468 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

now, — but he thinks my good eye will last me some time yet. I 
then went in to Dill's office. Thornwell called in and he has 
given me a long talk about Oglethorpe matters. Today I am in 
Macon, after a slow ride from Atlanta. I am staying with Mr. 
G. T. Kennett, who supports a child in this Orphanage and is 
a mighty good friend. 

March thirtieth — In my early days, my motto was "plan, 
push, perform." Now that I am bowed .down under the w^eight of 
three score years and ten, as the Thomasville paper has it, the 
onlv thin^ I can do it to keep things moving. 

April fifth — Cyrus Bailey, my grandson, marries tonight in 
Augusta. God bless and prosper him. 

April eleveyith — Today Florence passed her 50th birthday 
with me. It is astonishing to me that she has been in my life all 
these years, — 50. I thank thee, God for this mercy. I am going 
up to Rocky Springs, to the meeting of Presbytery in my car, 
this evening. So pass we on to new things. 

April fourteenth — The Houston Post gives States a half page 
write up. His church is the first Southern Presbyterian church 
to pass a 2000 enrollment and to record an addition this year 
of over 500 admissions. He stands at the head of the roll. My 
sons are distinguishing themselves. None of my grandsons are 
entering the ministry. I am not projecting myself beyond the 
present generation. 

April twenty- first — the last three days have been very busy 
ones. Cyrus and Marion came back from their wedding trip on 
Tuesday A.M. Florence gave them a magnificent reception. It 
must have cost a good deal of money, and I could not help think- 
ing that all of that money would have helped this cause mightily. 
Then I remembered that Florence was one of the few in Clinton 
that did not forget the orphans, and that this was the one event 
in a life-time. Our Savior said of Mary's wasteful extravagan- 
ces, "Let her alone." Dill and Thornwell came in in time for 
Ferdinand's wedding, last night; — which was another "grand 
event." 

April twenty-fourth— Up to this date, I have received $2340 
for support. I am earnestly hoping and trusting God for a good 
w< To trust is to believe, without doubting. One may hope 

anu pray and yet not trust.. That constitutes this main idea of 
believing. 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 469 

April thirtieth — The month on the whole has been a good 
one. I have received $2600 against $1900, last April. A small 
legacy also has been received for the endowment. 

Moij sixth — Charity and Children brings out an interesting 
truth in the editorial: "What is Success? Well, we can give 
you a living example of success, by our way of thinking. Take 
for instance Rev. W. P. Jacobs of the Thornwell Orphanage who 
has given nearly 50 years of his consecrated life in loving service 
for the orphans. Not only that, he has given three brilliant sons 
to the ministry. What more could be asked or expected of a 
man. Dr. Jacobs is one of the most real successes we know any- 
thing about." 

May thirteenth — Last night the girls gave a reception to the 
seniors. Ferd came around to talk "railroad". We also discuss- 
ed **Dr. Sweets" attack on Thornwell. We both agreed that it 
did Thornwell no harm. 

June first — Cassie came over with me yesterday to this little 
city of Atlanta. Mr. Bailey had a bad accident, by which he 
broke his shoulder and is now in the Grady Hospital. I came 
especially to see him. I am out at Dillard's . . . Mr. Maclntyre 
called for me this a.m., and took me down to the University and 
showed me thru the building. It is a grand structure and will 
cost certainly $125,000. They are doing an immense amount 
of grading for the future buildings. Thornwell's ideas are big. 
He is conquering difficulties. May God give him good success. 

June seventh — At the commencement, today, I received the 
honorary degree of LL.D. I appreciate it greatly and more from 
our colle'^e, here, than from any other. I am heartily proud of 
it. Still I fear, that my first vaccination won't take. Just look 
at the string: Rev. William P. Jacobs, A.B., A.M.. D.D., LL.D. 
Rather overbalanced. But with all these honors, I am hunting 
money to feed my orphans. When I decided to take up this Or- 
phanage work, I felt that I \i'as deliberately surrendering all 1ft- 
erary aspirations. Who ever heard of an Orphanage Superin- 
tendent that was a D.D. much less an LL.D. But God has given 
me the silly baubles and honors that count for nothing in the 
Kingdom of Heaven; and He has added many things that were 
worth while. And He will help me get more. He has already 
brought me to the mountain-top of my desires. 

June ninth — Bennett has returned from Jefferson with very 
favorable news in regard to the probability of the Georgia Or- 
phanage. He thinks that we are almost sure to get the money 



470 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

and that it will be used for the Sara S. Turner building, which 
can be our administration building. It will not be long now, be- 
fore we know. 

June tenth — Thornwell preaches for me tomorrow. 

Jime twelfth — Thornwell gave us a really great sermon yes- 
terday. 

June twenty-fourth — Only $1,541 up to this night. I thank 
God for this sum, for now that we are in the midst of a threat- 
ened war with Mexico, there is no telling what trials are before 
us. But we have already passed thru one war, — with Spain, — 
and survived. I need more faith. 

June thirtieth — We closed up June with a debt of $1000 
against a credit of $1000 for last year's June. This is a bad 
outlook for the incoming year but we are in the hands of our 
heavenly father, and He is in all probability arranging some 
great mercy for us. 

July fifth — I am far from well, I have had a bitter attack 
of sickness, — my blindness too is increasing. I am writing this 
with my nose almost rubbing out the lines, and a blue haze over 
everything. 

July seventh — I am growing too old either to be of service 
"at the river" or to enjoy it properly. I am too short of breath 
to venture to climb up the hill to the cottage, to take long walks, 
to go in bathing with the children, or to enjoy the rough ways. 

July eighth — My eyesight is so bad now, that I cannot read 
much and hence nine-tenths of my pleasure in Riverside is gone. 
I have done a very bad morning's work in the office today. 1 
will write tomorrow to find out what the Lord has decided about 
the Turner building. If we lose it, we eventually lose Georgia. 
If we gain it, it will mean Georgia's $10,000 still continued to the 
Thornwell Orphanage, and also a Turner building. 

July fifteenth — I must utterly drop all mourning and com- 
plaining. My poor eyes and ears must not season my writing. 
I notice that while I have a far finer institution than in 1896 — 
20 years ago, I am far less proud of it .... I am now on the last 
lap of my life's journey. Let me make it the great success .... 
Hindrances; ill health; a poor memory; the great war; the pres- 
ent .storm; unsettled politics. 

July twentieth — Receipts are very low, indeed, the worst 
July. over. Moreover, I have been sick for five days or more. 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 471 

and in addition, storms and cyclones have visited the state, and 
huge waves and dreadful clouds. Prospects are dark, indeed. 
But I am trusting and waiting. 

July twenty-first — Ferd, Elliott, William and Clara Young 
came out last evening. We enjoyed their visit greatly. They 
stayed to tea, but left shortly afterward. I am looking for Sara 
Harvin and my cousin Edna Jerman next week. Thornwell sent 
me a copy of his production "The Oglethorpe Story," (bound) 
I have read it with interest. 

August first — I heard today that Mr. George W. Cornelson 
had willed $5000 to the Orphanage. It is good news to us. 
Though his death I felt as a heavy loss. 

August fifth — I received Mr. Cornelson's $5000 bequest to- 
day. This puts our endowment up to $189,000. Thank thee, 
God. I am praying for our God to bless us in receiving a full 
sum of $200,000 before June 1, 1917. A delightful visit from 
Dr. Dill. God bless the lad! 

August eighth — Edna Jerman's birthday. We observed it. 
If father w^ere alive, he would be 108. 

September eighth — I am now preparing for my trial with 
Dr. Lokey. I dread it — and yet it may be a very simple mat- 
ter. Still one has a right to be anxious about a really serious 
matter. I am losing sight in my right eye, very rapidly. It is 
the left eye that is to be operated on. 

September eleventh — I preached to the 1st Church people 
this morning. They had a splendid congregation. 

Septetnber twelfth — Our 41st Annual report will be an ex- 
cellent one. Total receipts for all departments above $60,000! 
Twenty five thousand was for permanent work. 

September seventeenth — Yesterday we had a delightful pic- 
nic dinner, for my family and Ferd's and also Florence was with 
us at Riverside. It saddens me, when I think of all the good 
days I had there. It ought to gladden. The car brought us home 
in a half hour. Today, I preached twice, attended sabbath 
school, conducted the morning service, made two pastoral calls, 
one on a sick and dying girl, and one to baptise an infant. I 
thank God that I still have a little sight and a little hearing. 

September twentieth — I am preparing to go to Atlanta on 
the 22nd. I expect to have the operation on my eye at that time. 
May God restore my sight. 



472 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

October tenth — After 18 days' absence, I am back home, 
very weak and very sore, but very grateful. Dr. Lokey was in 
charge of me both for the preparation of my eyes for the opera- 
tion and afterwards in the ten days I spent in the Grady Hos- 
pital. Dillard very kindly entertained me. Dr. Lokey and Dr. 
Cannon were my doctors. Bess Feebeck, Mary Feebeck and Cas- 
sie were my nurses. For four nights Mary Feebeck sat by my 
bedside and kept me from touching my eyes. For three nights 
Cassie slept in a cot in my room to listen to me lest I call for help 
and all day long she watched over me. Florence came over to 
be with me during my operation and till 1 returned home. Twen- 
ty-one of my old Orphanage boys and girls came to see me. I 
am home at last but will have to go back, early in November 
for the final operation which the doctors hope will restore my 
sight. 

October eleventh — I hope to have a happy Thanksgiving and 
a good Christmas with no debts and one good eye. Then I will 
thank God. 

October nineteenth — I can write very little in these days be- 
cause of my eyes. Books I do not read at all. I can skim the 
headlines of the papers. Otherwise I grieve over what I can't 
do. Dill is with us. 

October tiventy-third — Yesterday I conducted the morning 
services, attended Sabbath School, visited the sick, preached 
morning, noon and night. Pretty good for a blind man. I go 
to the Synod of Georgia in three weeks and also go to Atlanta 
for my second operation. 

October tiventy-sixth — I really feel as if I had done some- 
thing heroic. Yesterday Florence came round in her auto-car 
and took me over rough roads, and against a northwind (38 
miles) to Spartanburg. After a visit to Will Glenn, Sara Har- 
vin and little Francis, I went round to the First Church and 
married William Plumer and Edna Shockly. Compliments on 
the ceremony were the most and finest I ever had. 

October twenty-^yiinth — I find that I can not see now to read 
at all but I can preach and I did it twice today. 

November firnt — I am writing this fairly well on the lines, 
bui I cannot read. What a distress it is to one. But I am stick- 
ing to my work. During October we received $2700 but are still 
$1900 in arrears against $1200 last year. I am counting the 
days now till I go to Atlanta. 



AGE SEVENTY-ONE— 1914 473 

November third — I have received $500 up to today which 
starts us well. Notwithstanding my poor eyes and poor ears, I 
am toiling on, to the best of my power. 

November seventh — Of course it is a dreadful deprivation 
not to be able to read in this lovely weather and not even to be 
able to enjoy a walk or a ride. I do walk and ride, but I see noth- 
ing, not even the houses. But hope sustains me and I trust in 
God. 

November tenth — Out for Riverside this evening. Up to 
date $1500. My entries in this journal are brief. 

November fourteenth — Nearly blind. I go to Dalton on Fri- 
day to the Synod of Georgia and to see Dr. Lokey Saturday.* 

November twentieth — Cassie and I left home last Thursday 
and reached Atlanta an hour late. We were met at the Terminal 
and were soon visiting peacefully in Dillard's country cottage, 
near Oglethorpe. Friday morning we took the train for Dalton, 

where we both were most kindly treated I found to my joy, 

that the Turner Legacy goes to the Orphanage and best of all, 
the Georgia Synod stands by us. My speech to the Synod was 
the last thing on *' docket." We had an enjoyable hour, around 

the dinner table with Dr. Frank Sims' family We dined 

with Thornwell today and I baptized my little granddaughter, 
little Maude. This note was written in this Journal, by Cassie 
Oliver, it is the first line that has ever been written in by any 
other hand than my own, since I first began keeping it, in 1858. 

November twenty-sixth — This day being Sunday the 26th is 
the sixth day since the operation was performed. In these six 
days I have been in perfect darkness, but most carefully waited 
on by my dear Cassie Oliver. My eyes have given much trouble 
but Dr. Lokey reports progress each morning. I am sitting up 
in bed this morning, blind-folded, impatient and worrying about 
the length of time that still remains before release from cap- 
tivity. 

December ninth — I am now very comfortably able to sit up 
in my room at Grady Hospital. My eye is steadily improving and 
I hope some time next week to be able to give it a trial. Cassie 
has kept me in communication with Clinton, and I know pretty 
much everything that is going on there. My own days have 
passed very quietly, the improvement having been slow and con- 
tinuous. My thoughts however have burned within me. I have 
prepared sermons, speeches, and editorials, by the bushel. 

*This is the last entry in his own handwriting-. 



474 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

December Uventieth — Fifty-six years ago today I was seated 
in St. Andrews Hall, Charleston at the reporters desk and there 
I reported the ordinance of secession of the State of South Caro- 
lina. For four years and four months I lived in the state of Con- 
federacy at which later date exactly I entered the state of matri- 
mony. I also became again a citizen of the United States. Today I 
am in a state of misery, because I am progressing so slowly 
toward my recovery. I ought to be the happiest man in the world 
with the dear loved ones all about me, trying to make life com- 
fortable. I am still with Thornwell. Florence and Cassie are 
constantly with me — Dillard comes in to see me every day. All 
these things cheer me up but I have time to think of my trials 
and distresses and too often forget my text for this occasion. "I 
will trust in the Lord, and not be afraid." 

December twenty-fourth — This is the Christmas Sabbath. It 
is the first of its kind I have spent away from Thornwell Orph- 
anage. 

December thirtieth — Bennett writes the good news that we 
have received $10,000 for the month of December. I received a 
Christmas gift from Mrs. McCormick to help me with the ex- 
penses. My own children have helped me marvelously well. My 
eye seems to be slowly improving. The doctor seems to think I 
will have a good one after a while. So ends this year, mid scenes 
and surroundings the like of which I never had before. 



CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE 

1917_Age 74 

Januarii tenth — Yesterday afternoon was distinguished by a 
long ride to Oglethorpe. At five o'clock Thornwell and Cassie 
brought up Genie Calvo from the train. She has begun to give 
us the Orphanage news from behind the scenes. This morning 
we went down to Dr. Lokey's office and found we can get home 
for a short furlough in ten or twelve days. Although it is nearly 
eight weeks since the operation was performed Cassie is still 
watching over me by day and by night and giving me my meals 
by way of spoon. I don't want ever to forget her faithfulness 
and devotion to my needs. 

January twelfth — Among the good things I have heard from 
home since the first of January is that splendid sum of $10,000 
raised during December. But I do not know but that I have had 
still better news in the admission of 25 children into the church. 
This means a lot of future ministers, elders, deacons and mis- 
sionaries to keep the blue flag moving onwards. I have been 
absent from my pulpit for eight Sundays. 

January eighteenth — Cassie and I are expecting to get over 
early next week. After getting through with some necessary 
business which will not require a day's work, I will come back 
for the finishing touches on my eyes. . . . This will be the long- 
est absence I have ever made from Clinton, not even excepting 
two European tours. I am still attending to a good deal of busi- 
ness in Clinton, but under very unusual difficulties. We are 
planning to spend Sunday with Dillard and go home Monday. 
No man has had more love shown him, or better care taken of 
him than I have had the while. Drs. Ogden, Flynn, Lyons have 
all called on me, while the President of Oglethorpe University 
and head of Dillard Jacobs Agency came in to cheer me every 
day. As for Cassie's care of me I haven't room enough to praise 
it. 

January twenty-first — The operation on my eye was com- 
pleted on the 20th of November exactly two calendar months 
ago . . For the first time in my life since I was an infant I have 
lost nine consecutive Sabbaths from church but Cassie has read 
one of John's beautiful chapters to me every day. The next 
lines in this diary will be written at home. 

475 



476 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

January thiHieth — In our room at Thornweirs. We hope 
to see Dr. Lokey this afternoon. 

February fourth — Just 49 days ago to the hour I woke up 
with my eye all gone wrong. I have had 49 days of disappoint- 
ment since then, but I am angry with myself for having grieved 
for a single hour. I have been splendidly nursed, by my dear 
girl Cassie, to whom I owe so much for my comfort. Thornwell 
and Dillard have made my stay in Atlanta almost a pleasure 
trip. For this 7th Sunday from my accident I will try to keep 
record of what I can see or not see, with my eye. Today I can 
see only light and motions, and the motion only when it is be- 
tween me and the window or light. I can make out no form. 
Dr. Lokey however, expresses himself pleased with the condi- 
tions. 

February sixth — The great topic of conversation is the 
break with Germany. I most sincerely hope nothing will come 
of it. I for one do not care to kill any Germans. I like the Ger- 
man people and am fond of their language. 

February eleventh — I leave this snug corner at Thornwell's 
with reluctance but I will be back here sometime in March, de- 
pendent on Cassie's report to Dr. Lokey from time to time. With 
her good eyes I will try to be of use in supervising the Orphan- 
age. 

February eighteenth — With reference to my eyes I can be 
certain of only a very few things, in the way of improvement. I 
see motion and light much plainer than I did a week ago. I can 
now see the motion of one finger only. I can see the size and 
shape of my hand before my eye, when held between my eyes 
and the light. The dark spot in my eye is about the same size, 
but seems continually changing its shape. The eye gets impres- 
sions from the other eye of general surroundings, and retains 
them longer than last week. 

March first — One of the pleasures of last week was a visit 
from Dillard. The great pleasure of the present month is the 
breaking up of winter and the coming of spring. With the aid 
of my faithful helpers I'm getting into my work very comfort- 
ably. Notwithstanding I am doing practically without sight. 
My main eye troul)le is the constant companionship in the left 
cornor of a black cloud, that is very variable in size and unknown 
in character. Sometimes it covers only small parts of the eye, 
though occasionally it swells out to large proportions. It is either 
the blood from the hemorrhage or a picture of the inflammation. 



AGE SEVENTY-FOUR— 1917 477 

But the work has to go on whether I have pleasure in it or not, 
I shall try to get pleasure out of it and be as happy as I can. 

March fourth — Though in a very desperate condition as far 
as my eye is concerned I am living quite quietly and contented, 
sleeping well all night and working well all day. 

March eleventh — I began taking the morning prayer service 
last Wednesday . . . Spring is coming on fast now. 

March sixteenth — Yesterday in passing along the highway 
ot life I reached my seventy-fifth mile stone. In my boyhood I 
never dreamed or planned to travel so far by, at least, twenty- 
five miles. 

March twenty-first — I built my house in 1883. I have added 
to it some slight improvements to the number of seventeen kinds. 
I am putting on a new roof now, and we are half through. . . It 
is more than possible that a big American Army will be landed 
in France. I am seeing strange things in this little world and 
may see yet stranger as I tarry awhile. 

March tiveyity -fourth — Cassie and I will go over to Atlanta 
on the 9th to see Dr. Lokey and to enjoy two or three days with 
Dill and Thornwell. 

March ticenty-fifth — I was able to conduct the morning ser- 
vice and to preach twice today. 

March twenty-nhith — This March is proving to be the best 
March the Orphanage has ever had. We have already received 
about $5500 in cash and it will run up a hundred or two more 
before the month is out ... If there has been any improvement 
in my sight I have not noticed it. Both eyes are a shocking bad 
set. I am sorry that in their old age they have got tired and 
quit. I always did hate a quitter. 

Ap^'il first — Cassie Oliver has been writing my journal for 
me for six months past. I have a slight hope that before I reach 
the close of this book I may be able to go back and read over all 
that she has written for me. It is a blessed thing that through 
al! the weakness and night that I have had a helping hand, not 
onh in private matters like this journal, not only in my office 
work, and in my walks and rides, but in her watchful care and 
helpful administration to my eyes and my health, for all these 
days and nights. This is the one hundred and thirtieth day since 
the operation. 

April second — The income from endowment has passed 
$10,000. Our Monthly account is in good shape too. And we 



478 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

are due to receive $9500 for the building fund. It looks to me 
as if the Lord is trying to comfort me so as to encourage me to 
bear the trials that I am passing through ... I also began to 
learn to read with my fingers. I hope it won't be long, however, 
before I can dispense with this latter. 

April fifth — Today's news puts us into war with Germany. 
What the future has to say on this sujbject remains to be told. . . 
We have agreed to put in a linotype machine in the Printing 
Office and will probably also arrange for a book bindery. A 
great problem before me at the present time is what to do about 
the German war. It is a very much bigger thing than the Span- 
ish war. We will have to wait and see. 

Api'il fifteenth — Last Friday was a distinguished day in 
Clinton. To begin with, it was Friday the 13th. Thirteen Clem- 
son boys came down to play with P. C. boys. The only score 
was made in the 13th inning. P. C. won the game and there 
was great jollification. Thomas Jacobs seems to have been the 
hero of the occasion. . .If Uncle Sam can give seven billion dol- 
lars for war tools we can certainly look to our Master for the 
little sum our orphans need. 

April tiventieth— Just 52 years ago tonight at this very hour 

Rev. W. P. Jacobs and Miss Mary Jane Dillard were united in 
marriage by Rev. Ferdinand Jacobs at Coldwater. The only 
ones of our eight attendants I recall were Jim Sloan, Jim Dillard, 
John Dillard and John Arbuthurst afterward D.D. Two of 
Mary's attendants were my sister Minnie and her sister Sallie. 
Of all present on that occasion including the minister and his 
wife and my wife's relatives I am the only survivor . . . Today 
was "America Day" in England and "Old Glory" was glorified 
where once it was hated. It actually floated over Westminster 
Hall and over the tower of London. There was likewise a grand 
patriotic procession in Clinton and the flag floated everywhere. 

April tiveyity -eighth — Mr. Turner has sent in checks and 
notes to amount of $9500 for Sara Turner Cottage. We proceed 
immediately to work. 

May tenth — Memorial Dcuj. I took dinner with veterans 
(Confederate) on Ferd's lawn. There are still a few of us left. 
On 20th of December 1860 I was present in the convention in 
the State of South Carolina as a reporter. On that day the ordi- 
nance of Secession passed. Of all that were there on that occa- 
sion from President to door-keeper, as far as I know, I am the 
only one that is alive. I was the youngest in the Hall then, ex- 
cept two or three messenger boys, most of whom died in the war. 



AGE SEVENTY-FOUR— 1917 479 

May sixteenth — I am getting all the war news but can't say 
I like any of it. I heard enough of war in my early days to last 
me always. I cannot feel that war is a good thing for our country. 

May twenty-first — Well, our country is deep in the great 
war. We will be overwhelmed with debt and will lose several 
million of our finest young men. I wish I could feel patriotic 
in this crisis. Perhaps it is altogether necessary but I feel dread- 
fully opposed to it. Our year's receipts up to June first will be 
$40,000 for the support fund, $11,000 interest fund, $10,000 
building fund, $8,000 endowment fund, $2,000 Press fund, a 
total of $73,000. It has been a good year in receipts. But we 
have managed to use it all. 

May twenty-sixth — On Wednesday I had a visit from Dil- 
lard, and on Thursday a visit from Dr. States. Both of the 
boys looked like they were enjoying life greatly. 

May twenty-eighth — 43 years ago the corner-stone of the 
Home of Peace was laid. I have lived to see that simple cere- 
monial which made me, before the common people, "a visionary," 
become a prelude of the life of a great institution which is grow- 
ing still and if it keeps true to its principles will continue to 
grow for many hundreds of years to come . . . Thornwell was 
disappointed by the decision of the General Assembly not to ac- 
cept Oglethorpe under its care but he views the matter optimis- 
tically. History repeats itself for I was feeling jprecisely the 
same way twenty years ago when Synod refused three times to 
accept our college. 

June — I have promised to preach at the Baptist Church to- 
day as they have no minister now. My plan for this new year 
are just those of the good soldier who is ordered to go forward 
at double quick. But I cannot arrange them all thoroughly until 
after the meeting of the Board next week. 

July first — I do not know whether I had a good congrega- 
tion this morning or not nor whether those present were atten- 
tive. The light is fading fast but I have a better light than the 
dear, old sun. 

July second — The press is really the modern pulpit. The 
minister who neglects it will wake up some day to find that the 
world has rolled and left him behind. 

July ninth — On Saturday night I had a visit from Dillard. 
He and Dr. Young were summoned to my bedroom about 2 A.M. 
On Sunday morning I ordained and installed two elders and 



480 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

three deacons. I was sick all the rest of the day. Last night 
I had another bad night. Am up again but am not at work. We 
will complete the Mary Jacobs School this week, and will under- 
take the roofing of the Academy immediately. 

July eighteenth — I was out at Riverside last Friday when I 
received the news that Dillard was in town to see his patient 
and I, being the patient, was eight miles away. I hastened in 
as fast as the car would bring me and was put to bed by my in- 
dignant son, who announced that I was exceedingly ill. I cer- 
tainly have had a shockingly bad cold but otherwise felt pretty 
well. I have spent the last five days in bed from which I have 
come to sneak out, bringing my shocking bad cold along with 
me. I have been concocting the first chapters of my book. 

July tiventieth — I had a visit today from Cleo, my old-time 
housekeeper. Her sorrows seem ended in a happy marriage. Dur- 
ing my illness I have been very lovingly cared for by my dear 
nurse, Cassie and my dear daughter, Florence. Cassie has been 
watching over me for three hundred days. No one ever had 
better care shown him. Ferd and Will have just gotten back 
from New York and report that there is a prospect of termina- 
tion of the war. 

July twenty-sixth — I am beginning to climb up out of the 
black pit into which I fell about two weeks ago. I certainly have 
been down in the depths and had it not been for Cassie's loving 
care I would have been there still. Little things have seemed 
like mountains piled on me, but I am getting my feet out of the 
miry clay. I hope to be well again by the time Cassie has to 
leave me. Every day has had some wretched hours but there 
have been some bright ones also. I will not be able to preach 
before the first Sunday of next month. I am doing my best to 
be patient. I hope that God will hear my prayers and will show 
His mercy toward me. I was more anxious to die than live but 
now my mind is clearing and work is much easier. 

August second — Cassie leaves tomorrow for her vacation 
and in her departure I lose my secretary, my nurse, and I might 
say my doctor, my chauffeur, my organist, not to mention my 
friend and companion. I am also losing both my eyes and ears 
temporarily. I might well be dismayed were it not for the fact 
that she will come back happier and stronger. 

August fifteenth — I tried to preach twice during the month 
but with very poor success, myself being judge. The disagree- 
able part consisted in my utter unfitness to do any thing. Every 



AGE SEVENTY-FOUR— 1917 481 

night I have had to call for help. And though out of bed all day 
I have been in much physical discomfort. 

During the past six or eight days I have written 'a booklet 
which I intend printing. Whether it will do good I cannot say 
but I intend to try it. The subject is "The Immortality of the 
Soul". There will be only about seventy-five small pages but I 
will have it printed by a good publisher and will hope for the 
best. I don't expect to make anything out of it but I want to 
help somebody. 

September second — Since the 15th of August, on which date 
Cassie took me over to Atlanta, I have written nothing in this 
book. We spent four or five delightful days with Thornwell 
and Dillard. I have had the pleasure of seeing the city, especial- 
ly the burnt district which is being rebuilt. 

Owing to health conditions I made only three short trips 
to Riverside. Our eighteenth year closed satisfactorily. Good 
matrons and happy children. 

I now have a session of six members all of whom will lead 
in prayer when called on. I got to work today in fine style, de- 
livering lectures to the ladies and to the college. 

September ninth — The past week has been a right busy one. 
I spoke to the matrons Monday morning. Home of Peace girls 
Tuesday evening. To the college that morning. Prayer meeting 
Wednesday night. We have taken the census and find very few 
vacancies. Our deacons' court meets today. I find myself equal 
to two services. Next week will be equally busy. 

I have been happy in the work however, and feel that I am 
steadily but slowly improving except that my left eye has about 
gone out of business. I hope my right eye will hold out some 
longer, although it is a miserable apolog>' for sight. I am wholly 
dependent upon Cassie for news of the outside world. 

DIARY ENTRIES BY CASSIE OLIVER 

September fifteenth — The above is the last dictation Doc- 
tor gave before his death. I am writing what 1 remember of 
his last week of work on earth. Truly the greatest man I ever 
knew has gone to his rest for he has been a father to this little 
orphan girl for eighteen years. 

Sundaii — Good morning greetings — worship — breakfast. The 
morning service was the seventh anniversary of Thornwell Me- 
morial Church and S. S. Had a very interesting time. Doctor 



482 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

charged the teachers concerning the work and responsibility of 
teaching the Bible; offered a special prayer. Dinner. After- 
wards, some reading. Three thirty P.M., Session met in Doc- 
tor's study (I was always present to aid Doctor), All were 
present, pastor, elders, Thos. Scott, A. 0. Sowers, S. K. Kil- 
gore, W. W. Harris, W. P. Jacobs, Jr., and George Flanagan. 
Very little business. Arrangements- for communion. Before 
closing Doctor remarked that this was the first session he ever 
had, all of whom led in public prayer and he was so proud of it. 
Four P.M., we had the communion service, which Doctor loved. 
Supper. Talks, music, goodnights. All this time Doctor was 
fairly well; complained some of indigestion, cough, and cold. 

Tuesday — Eight P.M., a talk to the Home of Peace girls 
while in study hour. He placed before them his ideal of a per- 
fect girl. He said that he had always loved women and had 
placed them the highest on earth. He remarked that he loved 
the study room of the Home of Peace best of all the places on 
earth because there he had gathered the first little orphan child- 
ren in his arms, and there he had looked for the last time on the 
face of his beloved wife who had been the helper and inspiration 
of all he had done, even in all these years. 

Wednesday — Worship, busy office hours, walk around the 
campus, dinner about two o'clock; walked up town to barber 
shop for a hair cut. Came back by M. S. Bailey's store and both 
weighed, doctor 112 lbs. and I 107. Went in parlor and had ice 
cream. Came back home, opened mail. Miss Florence came 
over every day before dinner or late in the afternoon. He loved 
to have her around. Wednesday night prayer-meeting. Read- 
ing Job, 2nd chapter, and expounding the book of Job to us. 

Thursday — Usual office work, walk and rides. He wrote 
a letter to Mrs. N. F. McCormick thanking her for refurnishing 
the McCormick Home and all her kindnesses to him. He signed 
his own name as usual to her letters. 

Friday — At half past four I took him in the car to visit. 
We went first to his son, Ferd's house. They were not at home. 
So we went around to see Edna and William. We had such a 
pleasant visit. He talked to them about his "honeymoon," as 
he so often talked of her in the last year. 

Saturday — Had a very busy morning in the office as Sat- 
urday always was. Doctor complained a little of his back hurt- 
ing him and feeling tired. Throe o'clock we started to River- 
side. Doctor, Mr. Branch, Genie. Alma, Mary and I, a good 
car full. The car rode so roughly Mr. Odion who has been laying 



AGE SEVENTY-FOUR— 1917 488 

the side walks in Clinton found thai Doctor's car did not have 
shock absorbers. So he had them put on. This is the last per- 
sonal gift. Then on out to Riverside. How Doctor did love Riv- 
erside ! 

Sunday — Good morning — worship and breakfast. Then the 
Sunday reading. He was very much interested in all that I read. 
I always selected the numbers of the hymns for him, found his 
text and the Bible chapter which he had Mr. Branch to read. On 
the way to church he told me he wanted the Pastor's Aid Society 
of Thornwell Memorial Church to put up a slab of some kind 
on the front of the church, having the name of church, pastor, 
time of Sunday service, and prayer meeting, and "All are Wel- 
come." A duet by William and Edna which was very pretty. 
Text I Corinthians, third chapter, sixteenth verse. "Know ye 
not that ye are the temple of God and that the spirit of God 
dwelleth in you." Song, "Holy Spirit, Faithful Guide." Doctor 
felt tired and took a nap sitting in a rocking chair on front 
porch. Had dinner, wrote in journal, and had papers read to 
him until three P. M. Then had first regular meeting of Dea- 
cons. A rain came up and he did not think we could have after- 
noon service. About four fifteen we went over to church. The 
room was very dark as the lights were not on so early. The 
songs were "0 That will be Glory for Me," "Will There Be Any 
Stars in My Crown" and "The King's Business." The children 
sang unusually well and Doctor loved this. The sermon was 
to the boys, especially. The shipwreck of Paul on Island of Me- 
lita. Text : Psalm 107, verse 24. "They that go down to the 
sea in ships, that do business in great waters. We walked home. 
Doctor felt tired and did not go for his usual Sunday afternoon 
walk. He went into the sitting room and started to reading in 
his "raised letter Bible" which he had learned to read in with 
comfort. 

At supper he said he felt tired and would hear some mu- 
sic and go to bed. We had several pieces, then he began to 
talk — he said he was "blue" about his eye sight, feared he would 
be blind, told us he had prayed to God to take him before he be- 
came totally blind, also said he had asked God to take him while 
he was working. He was not satisfied with the sermons he had 
preached that day, saying all his life he had felt "blue" after 
preaching with just a few exceptions. We had already told him 
he had given us two splendid sermons. Then he began to talk of 
the future of the Orphanage. Only one dream he had had that 
was not realized and he was going to write Mr. M. S. Bailey the 
very next day, ask him to buy the old Methodist churrh nnd 



484 DIARY OF WILLIAM PLUMER JACOBS 

name it the "Bailey Memorial" for his wife and have it for the 
Second Presbyterian Church. We then talked about his new book, 
asked him to put all his poems in book form, but he said no, he 
wanted to be remembered as a philosopher and philanthropist, 
and that Thornwell would collect his poems in a book some time. 
Gene and Marion came in and Doctor forgot his troubles in teas- 
ing them about Latin. After they had gone he told us he had his 
talk ready for the Graded School on Monday and wanted me to 
take him up in the car just before ten. He then asked for the 
time. I said ten of nine, bed time for him, but I played three 
more pieces on the "music box" — "My Task", "Beautiful City" 
and "The Holy City", one of his favorite records. He asked me to 
repeat the words after the music had stopped. Then goodnight 
and to bed, saying he was feeling very well and thought he would 
sleep all night. Soon he was asleep. 

I was awakened by hearing "Cassie — Cassie". As I turned 
on the light I saw it was twenty minutes to five. Doctor was 
sitting up in bed. He put his hand to his head and said he had 
an awful headache. He drank the medicine but could not drink 
the water I gave him, but fell back in my arms, unconscious. 
I called the girls and told them to call Dr. Young, Dr. Hayes, 
Miss Florence and the family. Miss Florence reached us first. 
Soon both doctors and the family were with us. Still we could 
not believe he was going so soon. The doctors could not do a 
thing. We all had to stand by with hands folded and let our 
dear "Doctor" and Father die. Twenty minutes to six o'clock 
Monday morning, September 10th, 1917. 



"Thine was the prophet's vision, thine 
The inspiration, the divine 
Insanity of noble minds. 
That never falters nor abates, 
But labors and endures and waits, 
Till all that it foresees it finds, 
And what it cannot find, creates." 



Life Of 

WILUAM PLUMER JACOBS 



Dr. James I Vance, Pastor of the First Presbyterian 
Church, Nashville, Tenn. : "It is a volume which should 
be placed on the library shelf side by side with George 
Muller's Life of Trust." 

Dr. A. A. McGeachy, Pastor of the 2nd Presbyterian 
Church, Charlotte, N. C. : "I made your life of him into a 
sermon the other day, reading from the book, simply 
enough to make a connected story and to illustrate his love 
for God and power in prayer without any words of my 
own. And they told me it was my best sermon." 

Dr. D. W. Brannen, Pastor of the First Presbyterian 
Church, Milledgeville, Ga. : "The Life of William Plumer 
Jacobs by his son, Thornwell Jacobs, that is just off the 
press, is a valuable contribution to the world's biographical 
literature. It is a portrait etched with loving fidelity of a 
personality, who came to be one of America's first philan- 
thropists. It is the engrossing story of a work of mercy, 
in which ecclesiastical and sectional lines were ignored by 
men and women who labored with the founder to make the 
Thornwell Orphanage at Clinton, S. C, the illustrious in- 
stitution it has become." 



Price $2.00 Postpaid 

OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Oglethorpe University, Georgia 



The Oglethorpe Book 
Of Qeorgia Verse 



It may be safely claimed that no other Anthology of the 
poetry of an American state has ever been published on so 
comprehensive a scale. The entire field of Georgia poetry 
from the days of the Wesleys down to the brilliant group 
of contemporary poets has been adequately covered. The 
Oglethorpe Book of Georgia Verse should have a place in 
every cultured home. It makes an ideal seasonal gift. Five 
hundred and twelve pages, containing a picture of Sidney 
Lanier and of the diploma awarded him by Oglethorpe 
University in 1860. 




Price $4.00 Postpaid 



OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Oglethorpe University, Georgia 



ISLANDS OF THE BLEST 



THE COLLECTED POEMS OF 

Thornwell Jacobs 

"One loves to linger over the fiver poems of the volamt 
with their magicry of phrasing and their rich spiritual con- 
tent . . . flawless meter and haunting rhijthm . . .The best 
long poem is The Old Cotton Farm. Both in conception 
and execution this splendid poem ranks with Lanier's 
hijmns of the marshes. — AMERICAN Poetry Magazine. 

NATHAN HASKELL DOLE (President of the Omar 
Khayyam Club of America.) in the Boston Transcnpt . . . 
"Taken as a whole President Jacobs' volume definitely 
places him among the more notable modern poets." 

WINIFRED RUSSELL (VIRGINIA STAIT) in SATUR- 
DAY NIGHT. 'Though the poems are wrought in South- 
ern colors they go back to a period far beyond Lanier and 
Wordsworth to whose verse they have been compared. They 
are more akin to Horace for they are fraught with the 
nobility and deep earnestness with which his work is tinc- 
tured. The finishing touches are, at times, as minute as 
those on a miniature. This, too, is Horace." 

HONOLULU STAR BULLETLN: "The Midnight Mum- 
mer has a joyousness rare in these times, for which one 
would have to go back to Shelley to find an ode so raptu- 
rous. It is Dr. Jacobs' cosmic vision that gives force and 
validity to the strongest of his verse." 



Price $2.00 Postpaid 

OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Oglethorpe University. Georjjia 



PRESBYTERIAN COLLEGE LIBRARY 
JSCBJ156JD SBTA 

Diary of VilltiM Pluaicr Jacobt 

laiiiiinniiiiifiviHiMii nn 



r 



3 5197 000451'^':) 



