/ i BiBfi " iil&s 



ill!! 






x . . . ,- 



LYE 



liiiiiii! 



lit iiiii! 



IS Mil I 



i 



; ;;!; ( ;!i I! 



I th!! 






i!i 






ipjiij!! 

ill I 



!i i 










LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 
SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 



LIFE 



AND 



REMINISCENCES 



OF 



GEORGE J. ELVEY 

KNT. 
MUS. DOC. OXON. ETC. 

LATE ORGANIST TO H.M. QUEEN VICTORIA, AND FORTY-SEVEN 
YEARS ORGANIST OF ST. GEORGE'S CHAPEL, WINDSOR 



BY 

LADY ELVEY 



ILLUSTRATED 



LONDON 
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON & COMPANY, LIMITED 

jbt. Hunatsn'a House 

FETTER LANE, FLEET STREET, E.G. 

1894 



ML 




CHISWICK PRESS : CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO. 
TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON. 



SDebicateb 

BY PERMISSION 

TO 
H.R.H, THE DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE, K.G., 

ETC., ETC., ETC., 
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. 



PREFACE. 

THE compiling of the following Memoir has 
been no easy task, for my dear husband, 
ever averse to publicity, practically destroyed the 
whole of his large correspondence, and kept no 
diary. 1 1 was frequently represented to him how in- 
teresting the publication of his reminiscences would 
prove, and although he often said he could fill a 
volume with the strange things he had seen and 
heard in his eventful life and long cathedral ex- 
periences, he strenuously objected to do so, fearing 
to cause pain to others or to reveal the unlimited 
confidence always placed in him. When he went 
to Windsor his brother's parting words were, " Do 
not open your mouth to fill other people's." To 
this sage advice he always strictly adhered. 

Should, therefore, the volume not meet the ex- 
pectations of the reader, I must crave their for- 
bearance on the ground above mentioned. I have 
been almost entirely dependent upon my memory 



viii PREFACE. 

for facts, and upon such help as many of my hus- 
band's friends and pupils could render me. Their 
kindness I would here thankfully record, especially 
that of my husband's favourite niece, Miss Evelyn 
M. Savory, and of Mr. C. G. Verrinder, Mus. 
Doc. 

At first it seemed almost beyond my power to 
give any true idea of Sir George's life ; yet if this 
simple record be the slightest incentive in inducing 
others to follow his example in consecrating to the 
Master whom he so dearly loved,*all their life and 
talents, I shall feel amply repaid. 

MARY ELVEY. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

Birth and parentage Recollections of early life Toody, 
Tady The Sermon-house at Canterbury My jack- 
daw Playing truant The balloon ascent . . i 

CHAPTER II. 

Curious characters in Canterbury Mam Godlybooks, 

Betty Thatargan/ 10 

CHAPTER III. 

George Elvey's singing Reminiscences of a fellow- 
chorister First impressions of London Life at 
Oxford Rowland Hill The divine and the atheist 13 

CHAPTER IV. 

First appearance in Windsor The trial A "thunder- 
and-lightning player" King William's decision 
Elvey's home in the Cloisters The Sheriffs and 

the debtors 21 



CHAPTER V. 

Presentation of the Gresham medal Confirmation of 
Prince George of Cambridge "Wherewithal shall 
a young man" Elvey's prize glee, "O power 
supreme ! " Ode for King William IV.'s birthday . 29 



x CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER VI. 

PAGE 

Disordered state of the St. George's Chapel service 
Tucker the verger Roach's eccentricities The 
Hallelujah chorus . , . . . 37 

CHAPTER VII. 

Performance of the "Messiah" at the Castle Death of 
King William Roach and the Dean Proclamation 
of Queen Victoria William IV. 's Funeral Elvey's 
appointment as organist to the Queen Correspon- 
dence with Crotch -43 

CHAPTER VIII. 

The Queen's Band The Bandmaster's fiddle Elvey's 
marriage His daily life and work Mus. Bac. and 
Mus. Doc. degrees Performance of his " Exercise " 
Elvey's organ-playing Performance of his ora- 
torio, " The Resurrection and Ascension " . . 50 

CHAPTER IX. 

The Doctor's music class His " Mount Carmel " Ad- 
miration for Mendelssohn Charles Horsley's visits 
Thalberg and the home-made metronome Elvey's 
"Ode on the Birth of the Prince of Wales" "A 
cut out of the middle ! " 59 

CHAPTER X. 

Elvey's application for Exeter Rebuilding of the Chapel 
organ The Prince Consort's Te Deum The organ 
in the Park Church King Louis Philippe and the 
sentry ... 68 



CONTENTS. xi 

CHAPTER XI. 

PAGE 

The Windsor and Eton Choral Society The Guards' 
Band under Winterbottom " vanquishing the foe " 
The Society's drums Josiah French the school- 
master Bristow the artist Charles Lockey . . 76 

CHAPTER XII. 

Funeral of Queen Adelaide Elvey's home life" Master 
George" The St. George's choir Choosing cho- 
ristersThe soldier baulked . . . .88 

CHAPTER XIII. 

The services at St. George's Tea-parties at the Elvey's 
The drawing-room on the wall Sir F. Ouseley 
at the organ Captain Bertie The Broadwood 
grand Legacy to Dr. Elvey ..... 95 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Dr. Tuckerman Winchester and Wesley The "Wilder- 
ness " Letter from an old friend The " end of the 
world" 100 

CHAPTER XV. 

Birthday Ode, 1850 Performance at the Castle The 
" Festival of the Ancients " Elvey's anthems, " In 
that day" and "O, praise the Lord, all ye heathen" 108 

CHAPTER XVI. 

Exhibition of 1851 Elvey and the St. George's choir 
present on the opening day The Cologne choir 



xii CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

The Choir Benevolent Fund Elvey's connection 
therewith The Festivals in St. George's Death of 
Mrs. Elvey Anthem for the Gloucester Festival, 
"The Lord is King "Editing of the "Messiah" 
and "Judas Maccabseus" The "Wellington Flood" 121 

CHAPTER XVII. 

Enlargement of the Chapel organ Interest taken in the 
work by the Prince Consort Discovery of ancient 
music-books Mr. Mitchell and the grenadier The 
spectre of cholera Dr. Stephen Elvey and the 
Psalter The " Hailstone chorus," peas v. hailstones 132 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

Elvey's pupils His methods of teaching Letter from 
Mr. A. D. Coleridge Tales of Eton Reminis- 
cences of "old boys" A caning and a glass of 
wine 146 

CHAPTER XIX. 
Tuning the organ-reeds Snuff-taking Smoking Stories 1 5 9 

CHAPTER XX. 

Visit to Tenbury Luncheon "in common" Perform- 
ance of "In that day" at Exeter Hall Festival of 
the C. B. F. Composition of " This is the day " 
Elvey's admiration for Crotch . . . .166 

CHAPTER XXI. 

Death and short account of Dr. Stephen Elvey Funeral 
of H.R.H. the Prince Consort Memorial services 
at Frogmore "The souls of the righteous" and 
"Blessed are the dead". . . . . .178 



CONTENTS. xiii 

CHAPTER XXII. 

PAGE 

The Prince of Wales's Wedding Elvey's wedding an- 
them, "Sing unto God" Visit to Ireland Anec- 
dotes "' Be Merciful,' Crotch !" . . . .187 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Visits to Southill Park The "Vicar of Bray" The 
Windsor and Eton Madrigal Society Sir George's 
part-songs Visit to the Lakes The cornet player 
Elvey's kindness of heart . . . . -195 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

Serenades at the Castle The "irony of fate" Early 
and late rehearsals Restoration of the Cloisters 
Marriage of H.R.H. Princess Louise Elvey's 
"Festal March" His knighthood The compli- 
mentary concert Violin and Piano Gavotte 
Opening of organs 203 

CHAPTER XXV. 
A crowded service Elvey's interest in his work . .217 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Friendship with Lord Russell Services at Buckhurst 
Performance of Elvey's oratorio at Glasgow The 
" Surprise Symphony " at Datchet The Christmas 
services The chimes, past and present . . .222 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

Concerning two queer characters at St. George's: Billy 

Leggett and Wise . . .... 230 



xiv CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Death of Sir George's eldest son-C. B. F. Festival- 

Concert at the Castle The old Church composers . 240 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

A sorrowful time Service in memory of H.R.H. Princess 
Alice Death of Elvey's wife Wedding of the Duke 
of Connaught Changes in the Chapel Opening 
of the Albert Institute Close of Elvey's public life 249 

CHAPTER XXX. 
Elvey's marriage Retirement from his post at Windsor 

Opinions of his work . .261 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

Restored health Details of a quiet life Visits to Buck- 
hurst Elvey's piano- and violin-playing Fishing, 
a narrow escape The Brocklesby choir" Handel " 267 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

The " Bog " Mission Church "A shot out of a shovel !" 

Village Concerts . . 279 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

Red-letter days "Non nobis Domine" Sir George's 

tales ...... * 2 ^4 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 

Visits to Brocklesby and the Isle of Wight Concert at 

Newbury Letters re Handel, etc ..... 290 



CONTENTS. xv 

CHAPTER XXXV. 

PAGE 

Opening of Holloway College Sir George's Ode The 
organist at Melton Ross Death of Mrs. Savory 
Performance of the "Messiah" at Ascot arranged 
by Sir George Visits to Buxton and Kendal The 
Jubilee service at Newbury . . . . -297 

CHAPTER XXXVI. 

The new home A driving tour The " box of tricks " 
Preparing music for publication The anthem of 
mediaeval origin Letters on Church music . . 308 

CHAPTER XXXVII. 

The Bristol Musical Societies Sir George's glees Last 
time Elvey conducted the " Messiah " His extreme 
nervousness 322 

CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

The orchestral class Sir George's religious feelings 
Extracts from letters " The beauty of his playing " 
Sunday services at home A peaceful end Laid 
to rest An impressive service The " old boys " . 329 

CHAPTER XXXIX. 
Conclusion ......... 341 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

PAGE 

-i. SIR GEORGE ELVEY, 1889 . ,. Frontispiece 

2. SIR GEORGE ELVEY AT TWENTY YEARS OF AGE . 37 

3. THE OLD HORSE-SHOE CLOISTERS .... 95 
.4. THE CLOISTERS. SIR GEORGE ELVEY'S BURIAL 

PLACE . 227 

5. SIR GEORGE ELVEY AT THE ORGAN, EVENING 

SERVICE AT WINDSOR . . . . . . 263 

<6, THE TOWERS, WINDLESHAM 309 



LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

GEORGE J. ELVEY, KNT., Mus. Doc. 

CHAPTER I. 

IN a small house in Union Street, Canterbury, 
on the north side of the cathedral, George Job 
Elvey was born on Wednesday, March 27th, 1816. 
For generations his ancestors had lived in and 
around the ancient city. His grandfather, Stephen 
Elvey, was a very fine-looking old man, dis- 
tinguishable by a Roman nose and fair complexion. 
He was remarkable for good temper, and his 
children used to say they had never heard him 
make a complaint. 

Early in life he left the Church of England on 
conscientious grounds, and attended chapel. At 
this, his uncle, Mr. Lawrence, with whom he had 
lived, and who intended him for his heir, was so 
angry that he altered his will, and cut him off 
with a shilling. 



2 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Stephen Elvey had two sons, one was for 
twenty-five years minister of Elim Chapel, Fetter 
Lane, London, and, it is interesting to note, was 
uncle to Thos. Sidney Cooper, R.A., as well as to 
the subject of this memoir. The other, John Elvey, 
married in 1799 Abigail Hardiman, by whom he 
had nine children, five boys and four girls, of 
whom George was the seventh. 

Only four children lived to maturity, but all 
from infancy showed considerable musical talent. 
Indeed, the name of Elvey seems for centuries to 
have been connected with music in Canterbury. 
Amongst the records of the monks of the late 
" Monastery of Chryst Church, Canterbury, with 
their offices, rewards, and pensions " occurs the 
following entry : 

"Chaunter: Johannes Elphe (Peti-Canon)." 

We further read, that at the dissolution he 
received the magnificent pension of $ 6s. $d. \ 

John and Abigail Elvey being Dissenters, 
George was baptized in the Presbyterian Chapel 
on April 1 4th. 

His mother seems to have been a very godly 
woman, and Sir George used often to repeat the 
words she said to him on her deathbed : " Satan 
has been very busy, but I am on the Rock." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 3 

Doubtless he and his brother owed much to her 
Christian training and character, which appears to 
have impressed them very deeply although 
George was only a boy of fourteen when he left 
his home to go to Oxford. 

Concerning his father, we learn that he was a 
very talented man, and his son often used to say 
that he had never heard anyone who could so well 
play country-dances on the violin. 

The following account of Sir George's early life 
is best given in his own words, as written down 
by Lady Elvey when he was seventy-four years 
of age : 

" I have heard my brother say that the first 
sign I showed of having an ear for music, was 
imitating my father sing : * Arm, arm, ye brave ! ' 
and which, as a child, not catching the words, I 
sang, ' Toll, Toll, ye brave/ 

" My poor brother, when I was only six, met with 
a sad misadventure, being accidentally shot by a 
friend (whose sister he afterwards married). He 
was taken to the Kent and Canterbury Hospital, 
where his leg was amputated. 

" During the time he remained there, I used to 
be taken up to see him. He always made me 
sing to him, but, being very nervous, I never could 



4 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

do so without hiding my head in the curtains of 
his bed. 

"At that time I invented a little tune, which 
used to be called ' Toody, Tady.' 

(A facsimile of this, as written by Sir George 
from memory in his seventy-fourth year, is given 
below.) 




" At an early age I was admitted as a chorister 
into Canterbury Cathedral under HighmoreSkeats. 
Here I soon distinguished myself by taking a 
prominent part in the services. The first solo I 
sung in the cathedral was, * Oh ! come, let us 
worship ! ' abridged from one of the Chandos 
Anthems. I have been told that I was a very 
pretty boy, and from the time I sung this solo 
I was in great request for concerts and musical 
entertainments. 

" During my early days in the choir the ser- 
vice was held in the Sermon-house, or Chapter 
House." 

(The name Sermon-house seems to have been 
given to it in the reign of Henry VIII., when, in- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 5 

stead of a numerous fraternity, the Chapter was 
reduced to a dean and twelve prebends. 

Such a large room not being required for 
Chapter business, it was fitted up for a sermon- 
house, with a pulpit, pews, and galleries. 

So early was this, that the chief gallery, with 
latticed casements (the Royal Closet), is dated 
1554, the 36th of Henry VIII. For many years 
the congregation, after prayers in the choir, used 
to retire here for the sermon, but this was found 
so inconvenient that the practice was discontinued 
until the time of King James II. 

The Lord Chancellor Jeffreys then informed 
the Chapter that the Presbyterians had a petition 
before the King and Council, representing it as a 
place of little or no use, and desiring that they 
might have it for their meeting-house. 

The person entrusted with this message being 
a member of the choir proposed their making it 
the chapel for early prayers, which were read 
every day in the week, and, till then, in the choir. 
" This will do," said the Chancellor ; " advise your 
dean and prebendaries from me to have it put to 
that use immediately, for if the Presbyterians don't 
get it, perhaps others will, whom you may like 
worse.") 



6 % LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" Talking of this, in going down to the Sermon- 
house to turn the books for the service one morn- 
ing, I caught a young jackdaw. My intention was 
to have returned and deposited Jack until after 
service in the cupboard where the surplices were 
kept. Instead of this, however, I met the pro- 
cession, and I had no alternative but to join in, 
with the bird stowed away under my surplice. (By 
the way, in those days we used to wear full sur- 
plices, and frills round our necks.) I deposited 
him on a ledge where we kept our books, and for 
a time he was quite quiet, but unfortunately he 
was intoxicated by the music, and, toppling off the 
ledge, boldly walked between the two sides of the 
choir, and after indulging in various noises, took 
his flight up to the roof with a loud ' caw,' much 
to the astonishment of the congregation, but to 
my intense horror. Service ended, I moved out 
with the procession in no enviable frame of mind. 
However, fortunately for me, my brother was 
master of the boys at this time, and he, knowing 
that the account I gave of the adventure was 
correct, could with difficulty conceal his own 
merriment, and soon succeeded in making my 
peace with the authorities. 

" Subsequently I recovered the bird, and took 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 7 

him home, where I taught him various tricks. He 
became very knowing, but after some time he 
annoyed my brother, who incontinently wrung his 
neck, to the great grief of my mother and myself. 

" I do not think I have anything remarkable to 
tell of my early career, but I remember one or 
two things which may be amusing. 

" As a boy I was devoted to soldiers a predis- 
position which, on one occasion, led me into an 
awkward scrape. I had been away from the 
cathedral for several days on sick leave, but was 
returning to school one morning, when I met 
some boys who told me that a review was to take 
place on the Downs that day. I at once told my 
friends they must excuse me to my master on the 
plea of illness, and they quietly went to school, 
while I started off to enjoy the sport. But, as ill- 
luck would have it, the master, grieved to hear 
such a poor account of his favourite pupil, went 
after lessons to my home, and anxiously inquired 
for me. My mother was greatly surprised, and 
assured him that I was better, and had gone to 
school. 

" As I was returning the boys met me, in great 
consternation, and we at once held a solemn 
council, fearing that we should be severely 



8 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

punished, as our master was somewhat violent at 

times. 

"As head-boy I duly instructed my companions 
what to do when they should be summoned into 
the master's presence. As we stood before him, 
fearful of the consequences, Mr. Skeats in a 
solemn voice said: ' Well, boys, what do you 
think you deserve now ? ' 

Anticipating punishment, with one voice we ex- 
claimed : ' A good thrashing, sir ! ' This frank and 
unexpected admission so disarmed his wrath that 
with a 'Good boys, good boys, you may go 
home/ we were dismissed, not a little to our satis- 
faction and delight." 

(Throughout his life Sir George took great 
interest in military display, which was somewhat 
curious, considering how peace-loving he was.) 

" One other curious circumstance I remember of 
my early years. 

" A certain Mr. Greene was to make a balloon 
ascent one afternoon from the Dane- John Hill in 
Canterbury. 

" Crowds of people were expected to witness the 
sight, the inhabitants having subscribed to inflate 
the balloon with gas. 

"As I was crossing the Dane-John in the 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 9 

morning, I saw the balloon there, and quite acci- 
dentally discovered in its side a tiny hole, whence 
the gas was escaping. I told this to the balloonist, 
who straightway got into the car, and at once 
commenced his ascent, much to the surprise and 
disappointment of the people, as the balloon was 
advertised to ascend at three o'clock, and they had 
calculated on promenading the Dane- John until 
that hour." 



10 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER II. 

WHEN I was a chorister in Canterbury 
Cathedral, there was an old woman about 
the place who was nicknamed ' Mam Godlybooks/ 
for, if anyone appeared in the cathedral without a 
book, she quickly supplied the deficiency. On 
one occasion a man peeped in during service time, 
when the old lady shouted out, ' Come in, there's 
plenty of room/ And so there was, for she was 
almost the only individual in the cathedral. 

" Another curious old lady I remember in 
Canterbury was one who, although possessed of 
considerable property, was a great miser. 

" She used to search in the streets for anything 
which it was possible to turn to account, and was 
particularly fond of collecting the ends of tallow 
candles. 

" The people of Canterbury, who were well 
aware of her wealth, used to flatter her and invite 
her out to tea, hoping by this means to procure 
for themselves favourable mention in her will. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 11 

" These invitations were accepted, and in 
winter-time she used to carry a lantern, minus 
a candle. When the time for departure arrived, 
she would exclaim, ' Oh ! dear, I quite forgot to 
put any candle in my lantern, would you mind 
giving me a piece ? ' This was done, and the 
lantern lighted, but directly Betty got out of sight, 
she blew it out, and stowed the candle in her 
pocket. 

" Rumour said she had once been married, and 
had starved her husband. Certain it is she 
starved her horses (for she kept a carriage, such 
as it was) until the animals had to be put an 
end to. 

" Betty would sometimes walk all the way from 
Canterbury to Rochester, to the Traveller's 
Shelter, in order to procure the fourpence which 
was given to the inmates in the morning, after a 
free night's lodging. 

" One of the Canons, thinking to gain some 
advantage, paid considerable court to Betty, and 
offered her a pinch of snuff. For this the old 
lady was ever grateful, and, when she died, left 
him her fortune. 

" On this becoming known, an old woman, who, 
it seems, had expectations of the property, wrote a 



12 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

book for the purpose of rendering the Canon un- 
popular. 

" Hoping to appease his detractor, he sent for 
her, and, when she arrived, looking very beaming 
and fully expecting to receive a handsome douceur, 
he quietly said : ' Well, Mrs. Blank, I have been 
thinking of doing something for you. I wish to 
give you this chair, so that you can sit down easy 
for life/ 

" Whilst I was a chorister, there was much 
difference of opinion among the Canons about the 
position of the organ in the cathedral. Those who 
wished for its removal took advantage of the 
absence of their most strenuous opponent to have 
the alteration effected, giving no little annoyance 
to this gentleman when he again came into resi- 
dence. This trick continuing to be a very sore 
subject with him, he was delighted when any 
inconvenience was experienced from the instru- 
ment. Sometimes it would take to ciphering, and 
this w r as an especial pleasure to him, for, although 
deaf, he never failed to hear this noise, and would 
then remark, in loud tones, to his brother Canon, 
sitting on the other side of the choir : ' Is that 
that argan again ? ' 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 13 



CHAPTER III. 

r I ^HE choir of the cathedral at this period 
J- was in a very efficient state, and many of 
our noble services were performed without ac- 
companiment. 

George Elvey was solo boy'nearly the whole of 
the time he was in the choir, and he had the power 
possessed by few boys, of embellishing the music, 
where required, with as flexible a shake as pos- 
sessed by any professional lady singer. His voice 
was powerful, and of beautiful quality ; added to 
this, he sung with an amount of feeling and expres- 
sion rarely heard. 

The following interesting reminiscences were 
given in the course of an interview with an old 
man upwards of eighty years of age, now in 
Chelsea Hospital, and once a fellow-chorister with 
Sir George Elvey at Canterbury : 

" I knew Sir George Elvey well ; I remember 
him as a boy at Canterbury. We used to sing in 
the choir together. George was . a nice lad, not 



14 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

fond of noise and bluster as some boys are, but very 
quiet and gentle in his manner. 

"He was always fond of music, and glad to get 
home to his practice. He had a beautiful voice, 
sang all the solos, and took the chief part in the 
services. Ah ! and he could shake, you know 
when the music said ' shake,' he could do it we 
could not. It's many years ago now, and things 
have faded into a kind of dream, but I can dis- 
tinctly remember his beautiful singing, nor shall I 
ever forget it." 

To return to Sir George's own words : 

" When I was fourteen, my brother (who had 
been master of the choristers in Canterbury 
Cathedral) was appointed organist of New Col- 
lege, Oxford, and, as he did not know what was to 
become of me, thought it better that I should leave 
the choir (although my voice was not broken), in 
order that it should not be strained. 

"It was not a rule at Canterbury in those days to 
give any gratuity to a boy when he left the choir, 
but in consequence of my meritorious (! !) services 
the Dean and Chapter awarded me the munificent 
sum of ^15 towards carrying on my musical 
education. 

" The first instrument I learnt to play, long before 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 15 

I left the choir was the violin, and as a little 
fellow some of our acquaintances used to be called 
in to hear me play ' Bluebeard's March/ which 
I was thought to perform in good style." 

In the autumn of 1830, young Elvey and his 
brother quitted the scenes of their childhood at 
Canterbury, to which town they never again 
returned, except on temporary visits. 

Sir George would describe in later years his 
surprise and astonishment on his first arrival at 
London Bridge by coach, en route for Oxford, at 
the scene of bustle and "hurrying to and fro," 
which was even at that time to be seen in the 
marvellous city. 

He could think of nothing which more adequately 
represented the scene than Handel's chorus : 

" All we like sheep have gone astray, 

We have turned every one to his own way." 

This idea so impressed him that he recalled it 
when walking with a companion in the streets of 
London more than fifty years afterwards. 

When Dr. Stephen Elvey took up his duties at 
Oxford, the New College choir was very destitute 
of good singers, and he was glad to avail himself 
of the services of his young brother George, and 



16 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

often called upon him to sing the solos in the 
chapel. 

A lady, speaking of young Elvey at this time, 
wrote thus to him many years after : 

" I remember you as a tall, shy lad with a 
beautiful voice joining in some glees at my 
brother s rooms in New College one evening, Dr. 
Elvey playing. One of the pieces sung was, 
' Then round about the starry throne/ and another, 
1 Now the bright Morning Star.' I recollect it as 
if it were only yesterday. The pieces sunk deeply 
into my memory." 

# * # # * 

While at Oxford, George Elvey commenced the 
study of the piano, and speaking of this he says : 

" At this time the piano was very trying to me, 
for I had been able to read music fluently since I 
was eleven, and knew exactly how it ought to be 
played, but my fingers refused to draw forth the 
sounds I knew they should. 

"Several times I fled from the instrument, 
driven wild by my performances, but my brother 
sent me back, with a box on the ear, to plod on 
at what he knew was so essential to my future 
success. 

" I was at this time very fond of composing, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 17 

but my brother discouraged my spending much 
time over this until I became thoroughly proficient 
on the piano and organ. 

" He would, however, take me with him to the 
Bodleian Library, where we had permission to 
examine the old music (which was brought to us 
in clothes-baskets), and here he would call upon 
me to sing over a good deal of it to him. This I 
could do without the least trouble, and the time thus 
spent was very enjoyable, while the knowledge 
gained proved afterwards very useful to me. 

" I have mentioned that I had learnt the violin 
when I was very young, and this was a great 
thing for me at Oxford, for I was frequently able 
to take part in good concerts, playing either viola 
or violin." 

It was at Oxford that Sir George learnt the 
various times of Handel's music, both from his 
brother and from Dr. Crotch, with whom he was 
intimate. 

Concerning this, Sir George wrote the following 
account in 1872 to a friend : 

" Dr. Crotch told my late brother that he marked 
the time of Handel's choruses from Randall of 
Cambridge, who played (I believe the viola) in 
Handel's orchestra." 



18 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Thus Sir George received the time in a direct 
line from the grand old Saxon. 

Whilst living with his brother at Oxford (who, 
besides being a splendid musician, was a humble- 
minded Christian), George Elvey was deeply 
impressed with a sermon he heard from the Rev. 
Rowland Hill in Oxford, only two or three weeks 
before the latter's death. 

George was at this time only seventeen, but the 
impression made upon him by the wonderful dis- 
course from such an aged saint of God remained 
with him to the close of his life. The following 
account of the sermon was written by Sir George 
Elvey at the age of seventy-six, and is an instance 
of the remarkable memory he possessed : 

" Some time in March, Rowland Hill preached 
in Oxford, in Market Street Chapel, near the church 
of St. Peter-le- Bailey. This was within a very 
short time of his death, which occurred April i ith, 
1833. My dear brother, his wife, and one or two 
others went to hear him. We had gone out to 
tea with some ladies close by, and when there, 
hearing that Rowland Hill was to preach, the 
whole party, including myself, attended the service. 
He was at that time very feeble, and it was with 
some little difficulty he was got into the pulpit. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 19 

When there, he had to sit ; his venerable and 
saintlike appearance I can never forget. 

"He opened "his sermon by telling the people 
they had come to hear the dying speech of an old 
man. For his text he took Hebrews I. 2, 3, 
and it was undoubtedly a fine sermon on the 
Divinity of Christ. I remember, when quoting the 
passage, ' He shall reign until He hath put all 
enemies under His feet,' he struck his breast 
exclaiming, ' His enemies in me' At the end of 
the sermon the preacher said, ' Hear how the 
Church people pray,' and repeated the Collect, 
' Blessed Lord, who hast caused all holy Scrip- 
tures/ etc., and enlarged upon it, particularly the 
passage, ' Read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest/ 
The chapel was very full ; several undergraduates 
were present, and myself with many others had to 
stand all the time. 

" Truly he was a man of God. 

" G. J. ELVEY. 

"June 8tf, 1892." 



One Sunday, when dining with the Queen's 
Band after chapel service, Dr. Elvey related a 
story of a confirmed atheist, who, calling upon 



20 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Rowland Hill to discuss theological questions, was 
asked by the divine whether he believed in the 
Ten Commandments. The person addressed, de- 
termined to maintain a consistent position, said, 
" No/' At this Rowland Hill called a servant 
and said, "Show this gentleman the door, and 
be careful that he does not take anything." 

As Dr. Elvey finished the tale, one of the 
gentlemen present jumped up and said, " That is 
perfectly true, sir ; the atheist was my uncle." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 21 



CHAPTER IV. 

BEFORE he was nineteen, George had made 
. such progress in his musical studies that he 
was constantly in request to take temporary duty 
at Christ Church Cathedral, Magdalen, and New 
College Chapels in Oxford. His brother, con- 
sidering him a thoroughly good organist, was 
looking out for a suitable opening for him when 
the vacancy occurred at St. George's Chapel, 
Windsor, through the death of Mr. Skeats. 
Backed by a dozen or more splendid testimonials, 
he was readily accepted to compete for this 
important post. 

Mr. Spencer Braham thus wrote to Mr. Gore : 
" Elvey is, indeed, a most talented young man, 
and his character unexceptionable. Our Dean 
has promised to write by to-night's post to Mr. 
Cust, one of your Canons, in commendation of 
him. He, though young, has all the steadiness and 
soberness of an older person." 



22 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" I have much pleasure in testifying that George 
Elvey has the greatest knowledge of music, is a 
very excellent performer on the organ, and in 
every way able to conduct a choir. I may also 
add that he is a person of the most irreproachable 
character, and it would be a personal satisfaction 
to me if he should succeed in the attainment of 
any object in life by which his future prospects 
would be advanced. 

"C. MEREDITH, 
"Fellow of Lincoln College." 

Accordingly, on April 26th, 1835, George Elvey 
in fear and trembling left Oxford for Windsor by 
coach. That night, spent at the Adelaide Hotel 
in Sheet Street, he never forgot, so intense was 
the anxiety he went through as to the result of 
the coming trial. Next morning, arrayed in a 
blue tail-coat with brass buttons and a yellow 
waistcoat, he presented himself at the Chapel 
Royal, such a timid, bashful boy, that all treated 
his daring to compete with the distinguished men 
who had entered the arena, as a joke, never for a 
moment imagining that he would outstrip his 
numerous co-competitors. Among these were Sir 
George Smart, Sir Henry Bishop, Philip Knight, 
composer of "She wore a wreath of roses," Dr. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 23 

Hodges, and Dr. Sebastian Wesley. The latter, 
already sore at having been defeated by him in the 
Gresham competition, never forgave Sir George 
for the second defeat he experienced at his hands. 
By the way, the anthem he sent in for the 
Gresham Prize, when Dr. Elvey gained it, was 
"The Wilderness," which, scored all over as it 
was by the examiners, he had framed and hung in 
his room. 

When Elvey's time for organ trial came, he was 
dismayed to find the pedals of the organ covered 
with a board, while the stool slanted so much that 
any attempt to use the former resulted in the 
player's nose coming in unpleasant contact with 
the manuals. After the first experiment Elvey 
turned the stool, and balancing himself on the 
sharp edge, made such use of the pedals that the 
lay-clerks called him "a thunder-and-lightning 
player," expressing the opinion doubtless based 
on his youth that he would never do. 

Among the pieces he performed on this occasion 
was a fugue by Bach. 

One of the gentlemen on trial had already been 
defeated by Dr. Stephen Elvey at Oxlord, and 
the latter used often to laugh and say, "I not 
only conquered him myself, but I made a man to 



24 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

conquer him." Only one stood the smallest chance 
against young Elvey, and this was not from 
ability, but because one of the canons was deter- 
mined to have, if possible, a candidate of his own 
appointed. 

This rev. gentleman was so vexed at being de- 
feated, that for many years he lost no 'opportunity 
of annoying Mr. Elvey, who indeed felt the slights 
so keenly, that even to within a few weeks of his 
death it pained him much to speak of what he 
then went through. Elvey at the same time, how- 
ever, spoke with pleasure of the kindness of 
another member of the Chapter, who ably defended 
him, to the ultimate routing of his enemy. 

The officials seem to have had scant regard for 
the comfort of the candidates, and at the end of 
the contest no luncheon was offered them, which 
called forth a remark from Mr. Gore, that it was 
left to the despised Minor Canons to provide 
refreshment. He therefore courteously offered the 
hospitality of his house to Elvey, Philip Knight, 
and some others. 

In the evening after the trial, the Dean and 
some of the Chapter were dining with the King 
(who claimed the final vote respecting the appoint- 
ment), and he inquired about the candidates. On 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 25 

being told that Elvey was the best, but was too 
young, he replied, " The best man is to have it ; " 
and when, on future occasions, young Elvey was 
spoken of in glowing terms, he used to say, " Ah ! 
I appointed him ! " At this time Elvey was just 
nineteen years of age. 

The delight of George's elder brother, Stephen, 
when the tidings reached Oxford of the former's 
appointment, can be better imagined than de- 
scribed. He was waiting at the stage-office when 
the coach arrived, and, on hearing the news from 
the conductor, he waved his hat in the air, and 
fairly shouted for joy. 

From the time of Elvey's appointment William 
IV. and Queen Adelaide took a great interest in 
the young organist, who entertained in his turn a 
warm affection and respect for them, as they ever 
treated him with the greatest kindness and con- 
sideration. He was frequently in request at the 
Castle, and often spent the evening playing to the 
King, when the latter was suffering from rheumatic 
gout. When otherwise unoccupied his chief de- 
light would be to gather two or three friends 
around him for a musical evening. Mr. William 
Corden (artist to Her Majesty and the Prince 
Consort), who was Sir George's first pupil on the 



26 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

violin, still speaks of the enjoyment they had in 
playing Corelli's Trios and other music at his 
house in the Cloisters. 

Sir George moved here shortly after he arrived 
in Windsor, having previously occupied rooms in 
the Curfew Tower, a somewhat gloomy abode for 
a solitary young man. 

His new home being so high above the sur- 
rounding country, was much exposed to the 
weather, and the howling of the wind through the 
doors and windows at night sometimes nearly 
drove him wild. Once, when, in spite of his 
entreaties, the winds refused to resolve a chord 
which they had been murmuring or howling half 
the night, he sprang out of bed, and hurrying 
down to the piano, resolved it for them, exclaim- 
ing, "There, that's it!" 

One subject of interest in connection with the 
Castle at Windsor is perhaps not very generally 
known. 

Under the old laws, Windsor being a royal 
residence, anyone living within the precincts was 
exempt from arrest on account of debt. 

In consequence of this, certain gentlemen took 
up their abode there to avoid their creditors ; and 
Sir George used to tell how some men in his early 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 27 

days were located in rooms in the Belfry Tower, 
one titled individual living with the father of Mr. 
Montagu Williams, who was then a resident in 
the Cloisters. (Mr. Montagu Williams, in his 
" Reminiscences," speaks of u Dr. Elvey " as one 
of his father's friends. ) Sir George would recount 
how these refugees amused themselves by taunting 
the sheriff's officers, venturing as near as possible 
to the outskirts of the Castle grounds, and then in- 
viting these men to arrest them. 

On one occasion the sheriffs got the better of 
them, and by means of a little plot succeeded in 
making some arrests. According to law, Sunday 
was their one day of freedom, when they could 
leave their sanctuary with safety until midnight. 

In this particular instance, a number had 
chartered a vehicle, and, like all sons of freedom, 
wished to be absent from their prison as long as 
possible. They therefore just timed their return 
for about midnight. The officers got news of this, 
and hiring a substantial waggon, met the party as 
they were returning over Dorney Common in the 
darkness, and with much good-nature precipitated 
a collision. 

As midnight was close upon them, the poor 
debtors took to their heels and made for the Castle. 



28 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

The fatal strokes of twelve, however, pealed out 
before they could get inside, much to the delight 
of the sheriff's officers, who promptly arrested 
them. 

This anecdote, and many others with which Sir 
George used to amuse his listeners, show what a 
connecting link he was between the present and a 
past in which the conditions of life were so vastly 
different. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 29 



CHAPTER V. 

A FEW months after his appointment to 
Windsor it was announced that the young 
organist had been successful in gaining the gold 
medal offered for competition by the Professor of 
Music at Gresham College. 

This success had really been won in the com- 
petition of 1834, but the presentation of the medal 
was not made till July i4th of this year. The 
ceremony took place in the Town Hall, and at- 
tracted a considerable concourse of people. The 
prize composition was an anthem for five voices 
from the 86th Psalm, "Bow down thine ear, O 
Lord ! " and it had previously been performed at 
the afternoon service in St. George's Chapel. 

The presentation of the medal was accompanied 
by an address from Mr. Horsley, couched in the 
following words : 

" Mr. George Elvey, in the absence of the 
Gresham Professor of Music, whose advanced age 
prevents him from attending here to-day, it is my 



30 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

grateful office to present you with this medal. It 
is highly gratifying to you, sir, and to me, as an 
English musician, to know that there are persons 
who have a taste for the highest and noblest pro- 
ductions of our art, and who are ready to hold out 
every inducement for their cultivation and en- 
couragement. You have well responded to their 
good intentions. Your anthem, which we have just 
heard, is calculated to do you the greatest credit, 
whether we consider it in regard to conception or 
execution. The style is truly ecclesiastical, the 
construction of the parts shows that you have 
carefully studied good authors, and that your mind 
is imbued with their excellences. 

" There is one circumstance connected with this 
anthem which I am induced to mention. On 
former occasions there was always a little discus- 
sion between my brother-umpires and myself with 
regard to the relative merits of the compositions 
submitted to us, but in your case there was none. 
We were at once agreed that to you the prize 
should be given, and I flatter myself that your 
success with us was not without effect in placing 
you in the honourable station which you now 
occupy. You are young, and I trust that you 
will go on improving. The great name which 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 31 

adorns this medal will stimulate your exertions. 
May your career be prosperous, may you live in 
honour, and die in happiness ! " 

About this time Mr. Elvey received the ap- 
pointment of organist to Queen Adelaide, and 
among his earliest pupils were Prince George (the 
present Duke) of Cambridge and Prince Edward 
of Saxe-Weimar. For the confirmation of the 
former he composed by request his anthem, now 
so popular, " Wherewithal shall a young man 
cleanse his way," but was uncertain whether his 
music would be accepted for use on this occasion. 

The King, however, having heard it spoken of, 
very kindly arranged to go down to the Chapel, 
and sent, greatly to Mr. Elvey's alarm and sur- 
prise, the following message, " The King is in the 
Chapel, and you are to go at once." 

At this he rushed off, and upon learning the 
object of His Majesty's visit, ascended, in fear and 
trembling, to the organ-loft. He commenced to 
play, feeling sure that his music must be a failure 
when heard without the voices, and still lower 
sank his spirits when word was brought that the 
anthem was to be repeated. When once again the 
King demanded it, Elvey's spirits sank to zero. 

But this feeling was dispelled on descending the 



32 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

organ-loft stairs, around the entrance to which 
friends were waiting, eager to pour upon him their 
congratulations at his wonderful success in having 
so thoroughly pleased His Majesty. 

It is almost needless to add that the anthem was 
duly performed at the Duke's confirmation. Of 
this latter event a very vivid recollection is retained 
by all now living, who, as choristers, took part in 
the service ; for the kind old King presented them 
each with a guinea, "to remember," as he said, 
" that they had been there," and, hearing that one 
boy, through illness, was unable to be present, the 
King sent his guinea by a companion, saying that 
his was " for a remembrance that he had not been 
there." 

As ;a memento of the event Prince George 
presented Mr. Elvey with a portrait of himself, 
taken at the time, in his uniform as a Life-guards- 
man. 

A year or two before Elvey's death he met his 
old pupil, the now Duke of Cambridge, at a City 
dinner, and was truly pleased and gratified with 
the kind reception he gave him, showing that he 
had not forgotten his old master. 

The first Christmas Day he was at Windsor, 
Mr. Elvey was not a little surprised and vexed, on 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 33 

coming down from the organ-loft after service, to 
see the choir-boys posted at the Chapel doors, 
trencher in hand, soliciting money from the con- 
gregation as they passed out. 

Boiling over with indignation at what he con- 
sidered a most undignified proceeding, he sought 
the Dean, and protested strongly against their 
conduct, begging him at once to suppress a practice 
so derogatory to a Royal Chapel. 

This the Dean agreed to do, and from that day 
the boys had to be satisfied with voluntary and 
private additions to their pocket-money. 

Another thing that worried Elvey a good deal 
was the slovenly way in which the clergy and 
choir entered the sacred building. He was a man 
who could not bear anything which savoured, even 
unintentionally, of irreverence. But it was not 
until several years afterwards indeed, according to 
a record kept by Mr. French, not until 1846 that 
the procession was arranged in the present order, 
and even till 1844 the lay-clerks were in the habit 
of giving out the anthems instead of the Minor 
Canons, which appears a somewhat curious arrange- 
ment, as they, according to ancient usage, were 
expected to take an equal share with the lay-clerks 
in the musical part of the service. 

D 



34 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

One old custom was continued for a considerable 
time at St. George's. As soon as the third collect 
was ended, and the symphony before the anthem 
commenced, the two or four senior boys took a 
pile of anthem-books, which were ready turned 
beside them, and gave them round to the congrega- 
tion assembled in the stalls. When the Queen 
was in chapel, as she usually was on Sunday morn- 
ing, the head boy went up to the royal closet and 
handed a book to Her Majesty. This, and turn- 
ing her books before the service, constituted a 
much-esteemed privilege. 

When these anthem-books, which had been 
used in all the Royal Chapels, were discarded, 
Queen Victoria ordered a handsomely bound copy 
to be given to each member of the several choirs. 

In the spring of 1836 the Glee Club in London 
offered a ten-guinea prize for the best serious glee, 
but omitted to state that only members of the club 
were allowed to compete. Mr. Elvey sent in a 
composition, " O Power Supreme/' which was 
examined with the others on the appointed day, 
and pronounced the winner. 

When the name of the author was unfolded, 
however, he, not being a member of the club, was 
ineligible to receive the money, and the only 
reward he had, was being permitted to print on the 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 



35 



title-page of his work that it was the prize com- 
position. 

A few days afterwards the following amusing 
lines appeared : 

" The funds of the Glee Club being in a condition 

To afford a reward for a good composition, 

The sons of Apollo in conclave agree 

That ten pounds shall be giv'n for the best serious glee. 

They resolve that the second-best man shall have five. 

The design is proclaim'd, and the glees are composed, 

Under hieroglyphical emblems enclosed, 

Sent in, and perform'd. The best glee is declared. 

The party to hail the composer prepared ; 

And all hush'd in suspense, when, the seals being broken, 

The disclosure appears a mistake to betoken ! 

The winner, the moment his name is detected, 

Not being a member, of course is rejected. 

So that out of the list, which at first numbered three, 

The two standing candidates victors must be. 

And this comfort they glean from the bottle thus burst, 

(On the last day of April instead of the first,) 

That as no rival glees will remain for the purse, 

None, 'tis plain, can be better than theirs, and none worse. 

The joy of the donors has likewise this zest, 

That at once they reward both the worst and the best. 

'Tis so in a donkey-race, where success depends more 

Upon temper than speed. 

To fulfil the old adage, though last, yet not least, 

The prize is adjudged to the hindermost beast ! " 



A few weeks later Elvey prepared a cantata for 
the King's birthday. 



3 6 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

The opening symphony is of a jubilant character 
leading up to the recitative, " Hark ! what tumul- 
tuous sounds," in which the trumpet takes a pro- 
minent part. 

Then follows a tenor solo, "Oh! the soul- 
stirring sounds ! " In this movement the imitation 
of the bells by the instruments is the chief feature. 

Following this without a break comes the chorus, 
" The King, the good King ! " This is a cheerful 
and bright example of part-writing. 

The fifth number, a fugue, " May the King and 
his Queen," is written to a bold and vigorous 
subject, drawing to a climax on the words, 
" Britain's loud cheer, Huzza ! Huzza ! " This was 
performed at the Castle on August 2ist, with full 
band and chorus, by order of the King. 

At this time the present private chapel of the 
Castle was the music-room, and Elvey frequently 
took his choir there to give performances. 

One night, when they had gone up to sing some 
glees and madrigals, William IV. came in after 
dinner, and bowing to the company generally, lay 
down on the sofa. Then pulling a large silk 
bandana handkerchief out of his pocket he placed 
it over his head, and soon fell fast asleep, to the 
no little surprise and chagrin of the performers. 




GEORG.E E.LVEY 
(AGED 20) 




SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 37 



CHAPTER VI. 

AGAIN taking up Sir George's own words : 
"On my arrival in Windsor on May ist, 
1835, I found things in a very disordered state. 
There was no bill drawn up for the Chapel, but 
the service and anthem for each day were fixed by 
the organist. The senior boy came up into the 
organ-loft just before the beginning of the service 
to inquire what was to be rendered. One of the 
old sextons told me that Dr. Aylward, on one 
occasion, having appointed the anthem, the choir 
sent word up that they were unable to sing it, 
because Mr. had a cold. The Doctor re- 
turned answer that ' they could do as they liked 
about singing it, but he intended to play it.' 

"The choir was in such a feeble state in my early 
days that I was forced to submit to a great deal of 
inconvenience. Things went on like this for a 
short time, when I brought the matter before the 
Chapter, and also suggested that we should have a 
weekly bill made out, as in other cathedrals, and 



38 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

after a vast deal of trouble I gained this point, and 
the Chapter agreed to adopt my plan. 

" One of the Canons, finding the head boy did 
not trot about the choir half the service-time as 
before, was very angry, so that during his residence 
the new arrangement had to be discontinued in 
order that he might have the pleasure of seeing 
the boy continue his perambulations. 

" The names of the choir when I first went to 
Windsor were Mallar, Francis, Palmar, Jarman, 
Smith, West, French, Mitchell, Salmon, Hobbs, 
and Harris. 

" Most of them were aged men, and not efficient; 
in fact, only four of them could sing, and I had not 
been at Windsor many months before Jarman, the 
alto, who was a very good singer, was down with 
consumption, which carried him off in a few 
months. 

11 The choir was by his death left with only one 
tenor and two basses efficient, and the services 
were dependent upon the boys and the three men 
above-mentioned. Unfortunately the tenor was in 
pecuniary difficulties, and was arrested. Thus the 
choir was reduced to two basses. 

" The Dean at that time, and my predecessor, 
Mr. Skeats, did not get on well together. In con- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 39 

sequence of matters being so unpleasant between 
them, two of the Canons (at this time there were 
twelve) sent for me, and gave me good advice how 
to act with regard to the said Dean. They told 
me that if I humoured him I should get on very 
well. This advice I acted upon with advantage, 
for being young I could submit to what an older 
man would not have done. 

" At this time there was no procession into the 
Chapel, and the Dean used to take his seat in the 
stalls in order to save time. 

" He would often send for me, and say, ( " De- 
liver us this afternoon," I am going for a drive.' 
This ' Deliver us ' was an exceedingly short anthem 
by Batten. 

" During the time that I was on trial, I went into 
the Chapel to practise for a few minutes on the 
organ, and, having spoken a word to Tucker, the 
sexton, a very quaint character, who was em- 
ployed in dusting the Chapel, he said, 'If I 
could play the organ like that, I wouldn't be here 
dusting ! ' 

" When I was appointed organist he was asked 
who had received the post, and replied, 'They 
have appointed a boy/ 

" At first he took a fancy to me, and was very 



40 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

civil, a most unusual thing for him. But ' a change 
came o'er the spirit of the dream/ for finding the 
people stay after Chapel to hear the new organist, 
he feared they would see the cenotaph. This 
privilege he considered they ought to pay for, as 
in those days the sextons thought themselves the 
proprietors of the Chapel. 

" On one occasion someone remarked to Tucker 
that the organ sounded very grand, and his reply 
was, ' I wish the organ would bust ! ' 

" He was an extraordinary man in his way, plea- 
sant enough out of Chapel, but when on duty he 
was a lion. 

" Although a small man, he was very powerful, 
and he told me that with a Turk's head broom he 
had taken cobwebs off the roof of the Chapel. In his 
early days he was a servant of one of the Canons, 
as most of the officers of the Chapel have been. 
Once, when his master went out of residence, he 
walked to Egham, intending to take the long stage 
to Winchester. When the coach drove up, how- 
ever, it was full, and Tucker made no more ado, 
but walked to his master's living, some distance 
below Winchester. On his arrival his master 
asked where he had come from, and when Tucker 
explained, very kindly ordered him refreshment, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 41 

with a glass of brandy and water, and sent him to 
bed, thinking he must be quite knocked up. 

"Notwithstanding his long walk, to everyone's 
surprise Tucker was the first up the next morning, 
just as if nothing had happened. 

" Many years before I remember him he was on 
one occasion, walking up from Frogmore on the 
raised pathway, when whom should he meet but 
King George III., with Queen Charlotte and all 
the junior members of the royal family, who were 
then children. 

" Tucker like a loyal Englishman jumped off the 
footpath into the road. 

" The King stopped and asked him why he did 
so, and receiving no reply, said : ' You jumped off 
the pathway for your own pleasure, now jump on 
again for mine/ 

" People entertained the idea that Tucker was a 
man of wealth, and accordingly two burglars en- 
tered his house one night. He, although upwards 
of ninety years of age, jumped out of bed and 
captured one of them. 

" Another character I well remember who was at 
St. George's when I was appointed, was a queer 
individual named Roach. When I first knew him 
he was cloister-keeper, and in that capacity wore a 



42 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

glazed hat with the words ( Dean and Canons ' 
on it. 

" In a few months he became belfry-keeper. On 
his appointment to this post (which includes 
blowing the organ, digging the graves, etc.), I 
offered my congratulations to him, when he took 
hold of my arm and said, * I tell you what, young 
man, whenever you wants wind you shall 'ave it.' 

" The first Sunday after this appointment, just as 
I was finishing the voluntary, he shouted out, loud 
enough for everyone to hear, * Done, sir ? ' at 
which unseemly conduct I was so shocked that I 
fled from the organ-loft as quickly as possible. 

" On one occasion Roach was digging a grave for 
a military knight, and one of the old knights said 
to him, 'You are getting very full here, Roach.' 
Roach replied, ' I mean to have a whole row of 
you along here/ Another time, after the organ was 
considerably enlarged by William IV., a friend went 
into the organ-loft and questioned Roach about the 
blowing of the instrument. He replied, ' It's all 
very well for that young man to sit figuring there 
(meaning me), but it'll take the wind out of any 
man to blow the Hallelujah Chorus, I don't care 
what country he comes from/ 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 43 



CHAPTER VII. 

ONLY a few weeks before His Majesty's 
death, Mr. Elvey took his choir, by re- 
quest, to the Castle, to perform selections from 
the " Messiah." 

On every desk he placed a card, giving full 
directions for the performance, to avoid all con- 
fusion ; thus showing, even at this early period, his 
great attention to detail. 

One of these is still preserved as a relic by Mr. 
William Corden, who played the violin on this 
occasion. 

Queen Adelaide was delighted with the music, 
and frequently beat time to it with her hands, 
but its effect on the King was so soothing, that he 
slept peacefully during the greater part of the 
performance. Shortly after, His Majesty pre- 
sented his portrait to Elvey, a gift which was 
highly prized as a memento of his kind bene- 
factor. 

Both William IV. and Queen Adelaide had 



44 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

always taken a great interest in St. George's 
Chapel. 

Soon after the former came to the throne the 
Dean and Canons were allowed to return to their 
stalls, from which they had been ejected by 
George IV. 

In some way or other they had offended His 
Majesty, and, said he, " I'll teach you to whom the 
Chapel belongs ! " and from that day they were 
not allowed to sit in the seats they now occupy, 
until August 8th, 1830. 

At 2 o'clock on the morning of June 2oth, 1837, 
King William IV. passed away. 

What a strange mingling of joy and sorrow this 
event caused ! sorrow for the death of the kind 
and gentle King, sympathy with the widowed 
Queen, and joy for the accession of one who 
appeared then, and has since proved herself to 
be, so ably fitted for her exalted position. 

The sadder side of this event was announced 
to Windsor and the neighbourhood by the solemn 
tolling of the bell in the Curfew Tower, about 
which the following somewhat amusing tale is 
related: Roach, the belfry - keeper previously 
alluded to, seems to have received a broad hint 
that the King was near his end, and waited about 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 45 

until he received the news that all was over, when 
with haste he repaired to the deanery, arousing 
the inmates by ringing the bell at the Cloister 
entrance with all his might and main. 

It was useless for the butler to ask him, " What 
do you want here at this time of night?" His 
business was with the Dean, and no one else. 

This distinguished person, aroused from his 
slumbers, and clad, not in his surplice, but in 
another garment which should be " always white," 
called from the top of the stairs : 

" What is the matter, Roach ? " 

" Billy be dead. Be I to ring the bell ? " 

"What Billy ?" 

" The King, to be sure." 

" Oh ! yes, Roach, you may toll the bell." 

Thus was the news spread that the King was 
dead, and that the young Princess Victoria was 
queen. 

Shortly after, the Heralds arrived in Windsor, 
and a procession was formed, which was joined by 
Elvey and his choir, preceded by the Dean and 
Canons in their robes. Thus, in solemn state, 
they proclaimed Her Majesty Queen in various 
parts of the royal borough. 

Then followed vast preparations for the funeral 



46 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

of William IV., no expense being spared to give 
due honour to the deceased monarch. 

Upon this occasion the whole nave of the 
chapel was raised on a level with the choir and 
carpeted, which has never since been done for any 
event. Everything was carried out with lavish 
splendour, and Sir George has said that it was the 
most gorgeous ceremonial he had ever witnessed. 

The gay uniforms of the soldiers, and the mag- 
nificent dress of the various State officials, lit up 
by the flare of countless torches, presented a scene 
of marvellous grandeur, and made the spectators 
almost forget the solemnity of the occasion. 

A few months after the Queen's accession, Mr. 
Elvey was appointed, by royal warrant, her 
organist at Windsor. Although this was a purely 
honorary post, he was never willingly absent from 
St. George's during the time the Court was at 
Windsor. 

Being so young when he entered upon his 
duties, he found it at first somewhat difficult to 
bring the choir into subjection, but the experience 
he had had at Oxford helped him greatly, and by 
steady perseverance he gained his point. 

One thing seems to have been a sore trouble to 
him. This was a litany that the choir for some 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 



47 



time had been in the habit of rendering, and with 
which they were loath to part. He wrote to Dr. 
Crotch on the knotty question, and the correspon- 
dence is given below : 



" SIR, 



"Windsor Castle. 



" I hope you will pardon my troubling you, 
but I am anxious to have your opinion upon a 
point upon which the choir of St. George's Chapel 
and myself differ. For the last few years a new 
litany of Soper's has been performed here, the 
melody of which runs thus : 







God, the Fa - ther of Heav'n, have 



3 



1 



raer - cy up - on us mi se - ra ble 



sin 



ners. 



" After having submitted to hear the above for 
some time (which was a GREAT favourite), I made 
an effort to introduce the old one of Tallis again, 
and I am happy to state I have succeeded ; but I 
am sorry to add, the choir and myself differ in 
regard to the real way of performing the same. 



48 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

_ No. 1. 



O God, the Father of Heav'n, have mercy -upon us mi-se-ra-ble sinners. 
No. 2. 



J nJ H 



O God, the Father of Heav'n, have mercy upon us misera-ble sinners. 
No. 3. 






O God, the Father of Heav'n, have mercy upon us mi- se - ra - ble sinners. 

" The effect of No. 2 at the word ' miserable' is 
as follows : 



mise - ra - ble sinners. 

" No. 3 is the way in which it is printed in 
Boyce, vol. i., and the melody is the same in the 
chanter's part as it is in the arrangement for the 
choir. I have, in the parts copied for the use 
of the choir, attended closely to the accent of the 
words as they are there expressed, but if in these 
modern days it should be altered, I certainly must 
see it done by an eminent musician, who I can 
look up to, before I can submit to any innovation 
made upon our good old church music. 

" If, sir, you should sanction their mode in 
preference to Boyce, I will readily agree to the 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 49 

alteration you may suggest, whether it be in 
favour of Boyce or any other. 

# # # # * 

(Signed) " G. J. ELVEY." 

Dr. Crotch sent the following reply : 

" SIR, 

"I decidedly prefer No. 3 to both the 
others. I should place the accent on ' us? but 
would not make a pause on the note. ' Upon ' 
should be short notes : 

2 J J 

up - on us. 

" I consider the litany in Boyce's collection not 
only better than others, but one of the finest pieces 
of ancient church music extant. 

(Signed) "WM. CROTCH." 



50 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER VIII. 

DURING these early years the royal borough 
was the scene of much musical activity, and 
excellent concerts, under Mr. Elvey's direction, 
were constantly given by the Windsor and Eton 
Amateur Musical Society, the forerunner of the 
present Windsor and Eton Choral Society. 

The Queen's Band included such noted musi- 
cians as Sainton, Cusins, John Day, Dr. Chipp 
(afterwards of Ely), Horatio Chipp, Hardy, Hill, 
Weist Hill, Anderson, Cramer, and members of 
the Griesbach and Harpur families. They con- 
stantly assisted Mr. Elvey at these concerts, so 
that then, and for many years, until the change of 
arrangements in the band, the Choral Society 
always had a splendid orchestra for its concerts, 
and was able to give better performances than 
have been possible at any time since. 

Elvey, in his turn, would frequently, on special 
occasions, take his violin up to the Castle and play 
with the band. Many were the pleasant evenings 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 51 

these eminent musicians spent together, both on 
Sundays and other days. 

One night the band-master, rather a choleric 
man, met with an unfortunate accident. Having 
put his violin down to reprimand some offender, 
in his excitement he suddenly stepped back, 
putting his foot right through the belly of his 
fiddle. 

At this the band was convulsed with laughter, 
which continued to increase as he held it up, 
saying, nearly crying meanwhile : 

" You wouldn't laugh if it were your fiddle." 

In the summer of 1839, Elvey, tired of a soli- 
tary life, was happy in securing for himself a truly 
congenial partner in Harriet Skeats, the daughter 
of his predecessor. The wedding took place at 
St. George's, Hanover Square. His wife is 
described by all who knew her as being very 
pretty and charming in manner ; indeed, none 
can speak warmly enough of her bright and happy 
disposition. 

This union was a truly blessed one, for the 
young pair were not only congenial in their 
musical tastes, but their hearts were united on the 
all-important point of love to their Saviour. 

Morning and evening Dr. Elvey called his house- 



52 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

hold together for family worship ; and delightful 
indeed it was to be present on these occasions to 
hear his devout and earnest reading and prayer. 
Truly God's blessing thus daily sought, no matter 
how busy he might be, was the reason of his 
success in all that he undertook. He always 
threw his whole soul into his work, and looking 
after every item of the arrangements himself, he 
spared neither time nor trouble to have everything 
as perfect as possible. 

His life is a striking example of how a man 
occupying a most important public position, can, 
without unduly forcing his religious opinions upon 
others, yet let his light so shine before men that 
they can see his good works. 

Reverence for everything that was good and 
great both in the past and the present inter- 
twined and ennobled every part of his character, 
the beautiful features of which were, his childlike 
faith in God's word, his great humility, and the 
fact that, despite his natural timidity, he was fearless 
of consequences where duty was concerned. 

Thus, when choosing boys or men for his choir, 
no wish to please friends or fear of offending them 
would influence his decision. 

Indeed, in one instance at least he suffered for 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 53 

many years much petty persecution from having 
declined an incompetent boy. 

Duty throughout his life always took the first 
place, and, although frequently this exposed his 
keenly sensitive nature to intense pain, nothing 
would make him flinch. 

In 1838, George Elvey obtained his Mus. Bac. 
degree, for which he wrote an oratorio, " The 
Resurrection and Ascension." 

In April, 1840, by a special dispensation from 
the Duke of Wellington, then Chancellor of the 
University of Oxford, he was enabled to take his 
doctor's degree two years earlier than was allowed 
by the statutes. For this he composed his 
anthem, "The ways of Zion do mourn," which 
was cordially approved by Dr. Crotch, then Pro- 
fessor of Music at Oxford. On April 2ist, before 
the degree was actually conferred, his anthem was 
performed in the music-room of Windsor Castle 
before the Queen, Prince Albert, the Duchess of 
Kent, and other distinguished persons. 

The following account appeared at the time : 

" On Tuesday morning last, previous to Her 
Majesty taking her usual exercise in the Park, 
she was graciously pleased to order the perfor- 
mance of Mr. Elvey's beautiful exercise for his 



54 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Mus. Doc. degree, and for this purpose Her 
Majesty's private band was in attendance to take 
the instrumental parts, and members of the Sacred 
Harmonic Society to support the choruses. We 
have had the opportunity of hearing and judging 
of this sublime piece of music. It was universally 
admired on its performance in Cardinal Wolsey's 
Chapel a few days since before a large company, 
and we are assured by a gentleman who was 
present that nothing could have gone off more to 
the satisfaction of all concerned, and not the least 
so to that of the composer himself. 

" Her Majesty on the conclusion of the perfor- 
mance was graciously pleased to enter into con- 
versation with Mr. Elvey, and spoke in the kindest 
and most encouraging manner to him, she herself 
being no mean judge of music. H.R.H. Prince 
Albert also complimented him on the production, 
and expressed his delight in having had an 
opportunity of hearing it. 

" It gives us great pleasure to record such testi- 
monials in favour of this ' exercise/ and the more 
so as the opinion of the first man of the age, 
Dr. Crotch, has stamped it with his approval, and 
thus has offered more than a guarantee for its 
originality and beauty." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 55 

In June the exercise was performed in the 
Music Room at Oxford. 

Long before the arrival of the Vice- Chancellor 
the room was crowded to excess, and numbers 
were obliged to return without being able even to 
get near the door. Dr. Stephen Elvey, his brother, 
conducted in the magnificent crimson and white 
robes presented to him by his pupils when he 
took his doctor's degree. 

The principal vocal parts were sung by members 
of the St. George's choir, and the chorus was 
given in splendid style by the choristers of New 
College, the lay-clerks of the Cathedral, and 
members of the Sacred Harmonic Society. 

In the Oxford paper at the time occurs the 
following notice : 

" To attempt to particularize where the whole 
was good would be useless. The anthem was 
one of the finest compositions it has been our lot 
to hear performed for a degree in music, and the 
unanimous applause it met with from a delighted 
audience confirmed the judgment that had selected 
Mr. Elvey as private organist to the Queen." 

Delighted indeed was the elder brother, whom 
he loved so well, at the splendid name his almost 
son and pupil was making for himself. 



56 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Speaking of his organ-playing at this time, a 
gentleman writes : 

"The organ at St. George's, Windsor, from 
its magnitude and quality of tone, gives him 
an opportunity of displaying the exuberance of 
his rich imaginative powers and scientific execu- 
tion ; while the chaste and solemn style in which 
the Cathedral service is performed reflects great 
credit upon his taste. Whatever musical honour 
may be conferred upon him will not be greater 
than he deserves, for Dr. George Elvey, though 
so young a man, ranks as one of the first per- 
formers on that noble instrument." 

How delightful it is to his friends to hear this 
opinion confirmed fifty-three years afterwards ! 
and we feel that our readers will pardon us for 
giving another quotation : 

"The late Sir George Elvey, organist of St. 
George's Chapel, was considered among his com- 
peers as the greatest master that ever touched 
the pedals during the present century." 

How few young men at such an early age, or, 
indeed, much later, could have received such an 
amount of attention and praise without being in 
the least affected by it. 

Such, however, was the case with Dr. Elvey. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 57 

He remained the same gentle, unobtrusive, humble- 
minded man to the close of his life. 

Perhaps, indeed, it would have been better for 
him had he asserted himself a little more, and thus 
saved himself from the annoyance caused by people 
of inferior abilities, who not infrequently took 
advantage of this trait in his character to impose 
upon him. 

On November i2th of this year, his oratorio, to 
which reference has been made as having been 
composed in 1838 for his Mus. Bac. degree, was 
performed by the Sacred Harmonic Society at 
Exeter Hall. The place was crammed, as the 
work, which was acknowledged to be a fine one, 
excited great interest in the musical world. 

The following interesting account was given at 
the time : 

" The performance opened with an anthem by 
the leader, Mr. Perry. This was followed by a 
short oratorio by Dr. Elvey, which appeared to be 
the principal attraction of the evening. The sub- 
ject of it was ' The Resurrection and Ascension. 
Had Dr. Elvey failed in this effort, one of the 
most arduous that a musician can undertake, such 
a failure would have been by no means discredit- 
able. But he has succeeded, and to such an 



58 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

extent as to give him a fair title to be ranked 
among that class to which Handel and Haydn 
belong. From the general feeling of the audience, 
and its effect on ourselves, we are led to predict 
that Dr. Elvey can, and will, produce works of the 
greatest power and effect. 

"The reputation of Dr. Elvey as a profound 
musician and excellent organist must be greatly 
enhanced by this composition." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 59 



CHAPTER IX. 

IN the winter of 1846 the Doctor started a 
music class at his house for the inhabitants of 
Windsor and Eton, which was greatly enjoyed by 
the members, who appear to have found the 
royal borough exceedingly dull in winter-time. 

The class numbered thirty-five, and in a few 
weeks' time, under Dr. Elvey's careful instruction, 
the members were able to give a very good concert 
for the amusement of the poorer classes in the two 
towns. After one of these concerts, probably 
during a subsequent season, the following remarks 
appeared in the local paper : 

" We have great pleasure in the concerts which 
our zealous and talented Dr. Elvey has instituted 
for the relief of the monotony of life in Windsor, 
and we have moreover much satisfaction in assuring 
him that the entertainment he offered on Wednes- 
day night was very much admired by the crowded 
assembly which filled the Town Hall. 

"His ' Mount Carmel ' was greatly appreciated. 



60 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

He has, indeed, done much to entitle him to the 
grateful consideration of Windsor and Eton, by 
introducing a taste for the humanizing pleasure of 
his art, at the cost to himself of a great deal of time 
and labour. 

" We know it to be the general feeling of the 
members of the Society that the evenings which 
he devotes to them during six months of the 
year are sources of pleasure and improvement 
to them. 

" We know that he is repaid, as he deserves to 
be, by their unanimous sentiment of gratitude and 
esteem." 

The reason for Dr. Elvey's oratorio, " Mount 
Carmel," mentioned above, remaining, to a great 
extent; a sealed book, is given by the composer 
himself. His oratorio had been written before 
Mendelssohn's " Elijah ; " they both treated of the 
same subject, and were very much on the same 
dramatic lines, but Dr. Elvey's conclusions on the 
subject were perfectly just. "What chance," he 
said, "would my work have against Mendelssohn's 
masterpiece ? When ' Elijah ' was produced at 
Birmingham it sounded the death-knell of ' Mount 
Carmel/ and cut the ground from under my feet. 
Mendelssohn's popularity put everything else in 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 61 

the shade, and my oratorio was overshadowed and 
crowded out." 

This was a bitter disappointment to him, but 
with his ever-generous feelings to rivals, it was not 
permitted to interfere with his great admiration 
for Mendelssohn, whose " Lieder" he delighted in 
playing to the close of his life. He always spoke 
in warm praise of him, and Sir George's piano- 
forte pupils will remember how the celebrated 
" Lieder ohne Worte," and Stephen Heller's works 
of a like nature, were constantly resorted to for 
developing taste and expression. 

It is quite true that the brothers Elvey had the 
correct reading of Handel's works, as regards 
tempo, etc., by tradition and instinct through Dr. 
Crotch, but they obtained their more modern ideas 
by personal contact with Bennett, Cipriani Potter, 
Moscheles, Mendelssohn, Thalberg, and Czerny. 

When Mendelssohn paid his memorable visit to 
Windsor Castle, and played to the Queen and the 
Prince Consort, " I believe," says a friend, " that 
Dr. Elvey and he performed upon the Chapel 
organ, and that the former went to London, by 
invitation through the Horsleys, to hear Mendels- 
sohn preside at the Exeter Hall instrument." 

Sir George was a great admirer of Mendels- 



62 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

sohn's pianoforte playing, and said he had only 
heard one other performer at all equal to him. 

Miss Horsley frequently recited her great friend 
Mendelssohn's music upon Dr. Elvey's piano, so 
that he got the correct rendering of most of his 
well-known melodies. 

Charles Horsley, on one of his many journeys to 
Windsor for the sake of the Sunday afternoon 
services at the Chapel, took the concluding volun- 
tary, and, not being used to the F compass of the 
pedals, was not always sure of hitting the right 
note. His manual dexterity was manifest, but the 
strange pedal-board caused him much trouble. 

An instrumental trio of Horsley 's frequently 
found a place in the programmes of the musical 
gatherings held in Dr. Elvey's house. 

Thalberg paid a visit to him, and played his 
fantasia on " Mose in Egitto " in the drawing- 
room on the Broadwood Grand. 

This was placed along a wall that divided the 
room from the dining-room, and the player sat 
almost in a corner, on the right-hand side of the 
fireplace. The sound being focussed into that 
particular spot in the room, it had often been 
noticed how very distinctly the harmonics of the 
bass notes could be detected. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 63 

When Thalberg sat down to play he hit by 
chance upon the lowest C, and this phenomenon 
so struck him that he left off in order to call 
attention to the fact of the manifest preponderance 
of the flat seventh in the harmonic series on that 
particular note C. 

This led Dr. Elvey to have a wire string 
stretched upon a wooden frame to experiment 
upon, and the sound-board was marked at the 
proper distances to show how the harmonics were 
produced. As this became associated with Thai- 
berg's visit, it created an additional interest in him 
and all his works. 

This incident gave zest to the inventive powers 
of Dr. Elvey and his pupils, and finding how 
Crotch had printed minute directions as to the 
length in inches of a pendulum for determining the 
tempo of most of Handel's grand choruses and 
concertos, they set to work and attached a leaden 
weight to sundry yards of tape, with inch and half- 
inch measures carefully put down in ink, so that 
they might each have a home-made metronome at 

hand. 

# # * # * 

Elvey's next important composition was an Ode 
on the Birth of the Prince of Wales. 



64 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

On Monday evening, December 1 4th, the Queen 
ordered a performance of this at the Castle, and a 
little before nine o'clock she entered the music- 
room, leaning on the arm of Prince Albert. The 
Duchess of Kent and a large party of guests were 
already assembled. 

'The ode was admirably performed by Her 
Majesty's private band, the choir of St. George's 
Chapel, and some members of the Exeter Hall 
Musical Society, conducted by Dr. Elvey. 

After all was over, the Queen told Dr. Elvey 
how delighted she was with the music, and also 
expressed great pleasure at the way in which it 
was performed. 

Prince Albert also afterwards sent for him, and 
in a very gracious manner thanked him for the 
performance. 

The clergyman who wrote the ode was at one 
time curate of Windsor, and was a very eccentric 
character. He resided in a house on Thames 
Street Hill, where he successfully protected him- 
self from too frequent visitors by keeping bees in 
his sitting-room and two fierce dogs outside. 

He subsequently went out as chaplain to the 
Bishop of New Zealand, but he did not remain 
long abroad, and after his return the nervous 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 65 

excitement from which he had always suffered so 
increased that he was obliged to be placed under 
restraint. 

He had a perfect passion for music, and was 
very fond of Dr. Elvey, whose organ-loft he loved 
to frequent. 

On one 4th of June he escaped from confine- 
ment, and presented himself at his old friend's 
house in the Cloisters. 

Naturally he was in a very excited state, and, 
upon being shown into the drawing-room, com- 
menced walking rapidly to and fro, kicking a 
basket in front of him, to the great alarm of the 
inmates of the house. 

Dr. Elvey, knowing the power music had over 
him, walked into the room, and, although con- 
siderably frightened to see the madman with a 
knife in his hand, quietly sat down to the piano 
and played all kinds of soothing melodies for some 
two hours. By this time his excited visitor had 
become perfectly tractable, and a carriage having 
arrived with a friend for whom Dr. Elvey had 
sent, the latter went up to him and said, very 
gently putting his hand on his arm, " Now, my 
friend, be persuaded and go back to your 
home." 

F 



66 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

At this, he allowed himself to be taken to 
the carriage, and went back without further 
trouble. 

Dr. Elvey afterwards visited him at the Home, 
and, in response to pressing requests, gave the 
inmates some music, although the only instru- 
ment was what he extremely disliked a har- 
monium. At last one man said : " Give us a 
Te Deum ? " and on Dr. Elvey's saying he 
thought that was rather a big order, he replied, to 
Elvey's intense amusement, " Well, then, give us a 
cut out of the middle." 

# * * * # 

The baptism of the infant Prince of Wales 
took place in St. George's Chapel on January 
25th, 1842. 

Dr. Elvey arranged the musical portion of the 
service for this, submitting the programme before- 
hand to H.R.H. Prince Albert. 

The following letter was sent to him at the 
time, at the direction of the Prince : 

" SIR, 

"You will observe by these marks (made 
by the Prince himself) that the march in ' Judas ' is 
to be played before the service ; the ' Hallelujah 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 67 

Chorus' after the service, and the overture to 
1 Esther ' while the royal party is retiring. 

" H.R.H. does not think that he will be able to 
attend the rehearsal on Monday. 

" Your obedient servant, 

(Signed) " CH. AHNUNG. 

"Windsor Castle, 22nd." 

One of the choristers, young Foster, hearing 
that the Prince of Wales was to be christened in 
Jordan water, carefully secreted a small bottle in 
his jacket pocket. After the ceremony, seeing 
several ladies dipping their handkerchiefs in the 
font, he crept cautiously up when all seemed 
engaged in conversation, and, dropping his in, 
with one quick movement gave it a good soak, 
and, escaping from the Chapel, squeezed it into 
his bottle. This treasure he preserved for some 
time. 



68 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER X. 

r I ^HE Doctor, having now undertaken the 
JL cares of a household, found his means very 
straitened, as his stipend from the Chapter was at 
this time only ^"135, and his constant attendance 
at the Chapel, and many other duties, interfered 
greatly with his time for teaching. He therefore 
petitioned the Chapter to increase his salary, but 
this they appeared unwilling to do, although the 
revenues of the Chapel at that time were very large. 

Dr. Elvey therefore sent in an application for 
Exeter Cathedral, which was then in want of an 
organist, and proceeded there by coach to com- 
pete for the post, which he won. 

On this occasion, as on the previous one when 
he competed at Windsor, he received many excel- 
lent testimonials one, to which he attached especial 
value, being from the late Bishop Selwyn to this 
effect : 

"He will not only discharge the duties of 
such a situation in a merely formal and devout 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 69 

manner, but he will do his utmost in his particular 
department to add to the solemnity and devotion 
of the Church Service. 

(Signed) " G. A. NEW ZEALAND." 

The trial took place just before Dr. Selwyn went 
out to New Zealand, and he has left on record the 
great pleasure he experienced in listening to Dr. 
Elvey's rendering of his favourite anthems. 

The Dean and Chapter of Windsor, fearing at 
last that they would lose their gifted organist, 
agreed to give him the munificent ( ! ! !) sum of 
200 per annum, and during the whole of his 
forty-seven years' service he was never offered 
any increase. 

Indeed, he used to say that such was the humi- 
liation attendant on his first and only petition, that 
nothing would have induced him to again approach 
the authorities. 

Writing to an old pupil in 1869, Dr. Elvey 
speaks thus with regard to the much-sought-after 
post of cathedral organist : 

" I quite agree with you in what you say about 
the position of a cathedral organist. It is one 
coveted by young musicians, but it is by no means 
a prize. 



70 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" I believe many parish organists are better off 
than those of the cathedrals." 

In 1843, the Chapel organ was rebuilt and con- 
siderably enlarged, under Dr. Elvey's direction, 
and he at the time gave the following account of it 
to Mr. Thomas Willement, Fellow of the Society 
of Antiquaries, who published a book on. the 
restoration of St. George's : 

"This instrument of exquisite tone and great 
power was built by Green in the year 1790, and, 
though in daily use, it received but little repair, 
and no alteration from that period up to 1835. In 
this year, however, several additions were made to 
it by the command and at the private expense of 
his late majesty, William IV., consisting, amongst 
others, of the extension of the swell to tenor C, and 
the addition of double diapason pedal-pipes. But it 
has been during the past year that this instrument 
has received the greatest improvements, and be- 
come, under the hands of Messrs. Gray and 
Davison of London, fully worthy of the beautiful 
chapel in which it stands. 

"The swell organ now extends to FF, and six 
new stops are added to it : sesquialtera, fifteenth, 
cornopean, clarion, hautboy, and double diapason. 
The swell of this organ is probably the most 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 71 

perfect in the kingdom ; the unusual thickness of 
the box and the improved principle of the shutters 
enable the organist, from a scarcely audible sound, 
to arrive at the full swell by the most gradual in- 
crease an effect not to be attained by the swell as 
usually constructed. 

" The choir-organ has also been greatly im- 
proved by the introduction of a new stop, the 
keraulophon, the recent discovery of Mr. Gray. 
This delightful stop, whilst it resembles the reed 
in its tone, has this great advantage, that it is not 
subject, like it, to be out of tune an advantage of 
immense value in a solo stop, and more especially 
in one so admirably suited as the keraulophon is 
for an accompaniment to the voice. 

" Great improvements have also been made to 
the pedals, which now extend to F ; whilst, by the 
addition of two octaves of unison pedal-pipes, the 
power of the double diapason is greatly increased, 
and a beautiful and effective light accompaniment 
to the swell and choir-organ is obtained. 

" Such, indeed, is the compass of the pedal, that 
the difficult fugues of the great Sebastian Bach can 
now be executed with ease. 

" To the great organ new reed-stops have also 
been added, and the large wooden false pipes, 



72 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

which formerly were placed on the exterior of the 
organ case, have been removed, and metal pipes of 
the lower octave of the open diapason substituted 
in their room. 

"The following is a list of the stops now contained 
in this instrument, thirty-seven in number : 

SWELL ORGAN. 

Double diapason. Dulciana principal. Cornopean. 

Open diapason. Principal. Hautboy. 

Stopped diapason. Fifteenth. Trumpet. 

Dulciana. Sesquialtera (three ranks). Clarion. 

GREAT ORGAN. 

Open diapason, nave front. Principal. Mixture (two ranks). 

Open diapason, choir front. Twelfth. Trumpet bass. 

Stopped diapason. Fifteenth. Trumpet treble. 

Clarabella flute. Sesquialtera Clarion. 

(three ranks). 

CHOIR ORGAN. 

Dulciana. Principal. Keraulophon. Clarionet. 

Stopped diapason. Octave flute. Bassoon. 

PEDAL ORGAN. 
Double open diapason. Open diapason. 

COUPLERS. 

Swell to great manual. Swell manual to pedals. 

Great manual to pedals. Choir manual to pedals." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 73 

Foremost among his illustrious pupils at this 
period was H.R.H. the Prince Consort, who, 
always anxious to improve himself in every branch 
of art, took lessons in harmony from him, and at 
this time composed his celebrated Te Deum, etc. 

The Prince, desiring to have the same per- 
formed, Dr. Elvey, ever anxious to give pleasure, 
conceived the idea of instrumenting the fine work 
for the band, and, rising early in the morning 
of the day it was to be performed, he not even 
allowed himself time to complete his toilette, but 
sat all day in his dressing-gown, working hard 
at arranging and copying the parts for the respec- 
tive instruments, until it was time for him to pre- 
pare for the performance. 

The Prince, always most kind and gracious 
to him, was delighted with his clever work, and 
expressed himself so warmly about it that Elvey 
felt well repaid for all the trouble he had taken. 

This Te Deum, with Dr. Elvey's accompani- 
ments, was used at the Jubilee service in West- 
minster Abbey. 

A short time after the Prince sent him a pair of 
splendid silver candlesticks in remembrance of the 
occasion. 

The Doctor took a great interest in the arrange- 



74 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

ments for the erection of an organ in the Park 
Church, with which he rendered the Prince Con- 
sort considerable assistance. 

When the instrument was ready for use, the 
latter took Dr. Elvey over with him to try it, but 
directly the Doctor commenced to play the most 
unearthly sounds proceeded from under the organ - 
stool, much to their consternation. 

It was then discovered that a little pet dog 
of the Doctor's had secreted himself in the carriage 
unobserved, and followed them into the Chapel. 

At this period the Doctor was in very poor 
health, and by the advice of a physician whom he 
consulted, he adopted for some time the plan 
of taking a long walk as soon as he rose, and then 
returning home for bath and breakfast, which 
regime he found most beneficial. 

Upon one of these early morning excursions he 
was exceedingly interested to see the French King, 
Louis Philippe, then on a visit to Her Majesty the 
Queen, likewise taking an early morning constitu- 
tional, and, what attracted his attention still more, 
was to see him walk up to one of the sentries, 
asking him something, which the man, not know- 
ing by whom he was being addressed, was evi- 
dently unwilling to do, until a few words, quietly 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 75 

spoken, apprized him of the rank of his ques- 
tioner. 

Learning this, he at once acceded to the request 
made to him, and unfastening his knapsack, laid it 
on the ground and exhibited the whole contents to 
the King, who seemed most anxious to know with 
what kit the English soldiers were provided. 



76 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XL 

FROM the time he went to Windsor, until his 
retirement in 1882, Dr. Elvey was ever ready 
to help forward any scheme for the benefit of the 
royal borough. 

In this way the Choral Society (which he started 
quite at the outset of his Windsor career), and, 
later on, the Madrigal Society, both owed much to 
his energy and ability. 

Of course the posts he held in connection 
with these societies were purely honorary; but, 
far from suffering from this fact, his work for 
them was rendered conspicuous by a zeal and 
energy that no monetary recompense could have 
repaid. 

He worked incessantly at the practices, regu- 
larly taking them himself, and doing all in his 
power to render the members thoroughly efficient. 

But before this was achieved, many amusing 
incidents occurred. Occasionally a violinist, wax- 
ing warm at his work and forgetful of time, would 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 77 

arrive at the end of a movement whilst the others 
were yet in the middle. 

One night, when practising " The Creation," the 
confusion at first was so great that the Doctor re- 
marked laughingly to the members : " You have 
succeeded in depicting chaos better than Haydn 
ever intended." 

In the early days of the Choral Society concerts 
were given alternately in the Mathematical School 
at Eton and the Windsor Town Hall. This hall 
stands in the High Street, and was built by Sir 
Christopher Wren. The large Banqueting Room 
and Justice Chamber, supported by stone pillars 
placed round the outer sides, give it the appear- 
ance of a Noah's Ark on stilts, or a colossal centi- 
pede similarly equipped. 

The burgesses, fearing for their august persons, 
lest they should find themselves on the flags below 
one fine night, after or during a dance or some 
other festive gathering, requested the illustrious 
architect to place equally strong pillars in the 
centre as a measure of precaution. Failing to 
satisfy these good men and their merry wives that 
the structure was perfectly safe as he designed it, 
he reluctantly consented to set up pillars in the re- 
quired position; but he privately ordered them 



78 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

to be made four inches shorter than the real 
supports. 

Generations of happy aldermen lived and died 
in ignorance of this fact till the ceiling of the yard 
below had to be repaired, when the workmen dis- 
covered that the centre uprights had never 
touched the beams on which the rooms rested ! 

In this Banqueting Hall the concerts were held, 
and the Council Chamber was turned into an 
artistes' room. 

The members of the Queen's private band were 
generally the principal instrumentalists ; at other 
times the bands of the regiments quartered in 
Windsor were engaged. 

More often, contingents from each were requi- 
sitioned. 

For many years no London principals were 
engaged for these concerts, and the members of 
the St. George's choir, men and boys, were the 
chief vocalists. 

Sometimes they sang gratuitously, and some- 
times received a guinea fee. For this they were 
derisively styled " guinea-pigs." At the first con- 
certs of the season, oratorios were sometimes 
given entire ; then, at a second, a cantata as an 
introduction to a miscellaneous latter half. At 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 79 

these solos were fired off, and budding geniuses 
came to the fore with new compositions or arrange- 
ments. The Guards' bands were so accustomed 
to play in the open air that it required much tact 
and firmness on the part of the conductor to keep 
these gentlemen within bounds, or the brass would 
have overpowered the other parts of the orchestra. 

Winterbottom, a subaltern to Tutton, bandmaster 
to the Blues, composed a " March " with a high- 
sounding title like the celebrated piece called 
"The Battle of Prague." It was descriptive of 
the tramp to the fight, storming the citadel, the 
chance shots, and lastly, the triumph of victory. 
Unlike the ancient pianoforte solo the " cries of 
the wounded " were left out. 

The Foot-Guards with their side drums assisted 
their Life-Guard friends to beat the introductory 
roll-call, and a very considerable din they made 
with their combined forces ; enough, indeed, to 
unnerve the strongest yeoman, let alone the old 
ladies of the royal borough. 

As the movements followed one after another, 
the sound waxed louder and more loud, till, as 
one who was present says : 

" We thought our ears would give way under 
the strain, or the roof lift bodily, so as to let off 



8o LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

the tremendous volume of noise cooped up in so 
small a space." 

The audience bore this for a time in abject 
terror, in the hope that after the storm would 
come the longed-for calm. But instead, excite- 
ment added more and more to their powers of 
execution, till the band seemed possessed of a 
maddened frenzy. 

Some of the most timid amongst the listeners 
had moved to the door soon after the tempest of 
sound commenced, and the exodus went on until 
the Town Hall was wellnigh empty, and the 
orchestra was allowed to blow itself off. 

When at length the finale came, Dr. Elvey 
shouted his loudest " Bravo ! " from the safe dis- 
tance of the Council Chamber, " Bravo, Winter- 
bottom ! you have fairly vanquished the foe ; and 
played them all out !" 

Quite unconscious of his surroundings, Winter- 
bottom looked very crestfallen, and retired from 
the conductor's desk, wiping his face, a sadder, 
but a wiser man. 

The following extract from a letter written to a 
friend by Sir George Elvey respecting the drums 
belonging to the Choral Society, may not be out 
of place here. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 81 

" DEAR , 

" Keeton has asked me about the drums 
belonging to the Choral Society. . . . General 
Reid gave them to the society through me, and I 
purchased them of a Mr. Potter, who had a shop 
near Westminster Bridge. ... I was told at 
the time that they were used at Vauxhall Gardens 
in the time of Handel. 

" They are very fine drums, and used to cover 
a multitude of sins. . . ." 

A further page in the history of these drums 
may be inserted here. In after years the Choral 
Society became bankrupt, and all its possessions 
were put up for sale. Dr. Elvey bought the 
drums to save them, but allowed the society to 
continue to use them as before. 

The General Reid above-mentioned was a good 
friend to the Choral Society, for not only did he 
originally present the drums, but the whole of the 
orchestra, including the fittings and the chandeliers 
above the platform. 

These chandeliers were telescoped, so that they 
might be pushed up out of the way of those 
performing upon the orchestra. 

Besides the concerts that Dr. Elvey got up 

G 



82 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

with the Choral Society, he had many private 
musical entertainments at his own house. 

Many interesting programmes of part-music 
were gone through in this way by the choir ; and 
these alternated with more varied entertainments, 
at which trios and quartettes were played. 

As a specimen of these, two programmes are 
given below : 

Friday Evening, February 2nd, 1849. 

SYMPHONY PIANO, VIOLIN, VIOLONCELLO Haydn. 

MADRIGAL " Merrily wake music's measure " Barnett. 

GLEE "By Celia's arbour" Horsley. 

SONG Mr. Lockey. 

MADRIGAL "Gather ye rosebuds" G.J. Elvey. 

DUET "What are the wild waves saying?" Glover. 

GLEE " Spring's delights " Muller. 

MADRIGAL " Lo, the bee " Balfe. 

GLEE " When winds breathe soft " Webbe. 

SONG Mr. Lockey. 

GLEE "Mark'd you her &]zt"Spofforth. 

SYMPHONY IN D, PIANO, VIOLIN, VIOLONCELLO Beethoven. 

MADRIGAL " Flora gave me fairest flowers " Wilbye. 

GLEE "With sighs, sweet rose" Callcott. 
CATCH " They say there is an echo here " Herschell. 

SOLO VIOLONCELLO H. Chipp. 

MADRIGAL " Down in a flow'ry vale " Festa. 

The Waits. 

" The following pieces will be performed by the 
choristers of St. George's Chapel, Windsor, with 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 83 

the permission of Dr. Elvey, and assisted by his 
pupils. 

PART FIRST. 

OVERTURE " Caliph of Bagdad " Boieldieu. 

GLEE " The Chough and Crow " Bishop. 

MADRIGAL "Away, thoushalt not love me" Wilbye, 1598. 

DUET " Murmuring sea " Glover. 

SONG " We're a' noddin' " Hawes. 

GLEE " When shall we three meet again ? " Horsky. 

MADRIGAL" Fly aloft " Wilbye. 

GLEE" Strike the harp " Stevens. 

LAUGHING TRIO " Va Dasi via Di qua " Martini. 

PART SECOND. 

FANTASIA Airs from " Norma " Bellini. 

GLEE" Blow, gentle gales " Bishop. 
MADRIGAL " Now is the month of maying " Morley. 

SONG "Sweet years of youth" Linter. 

SOLO AND CHORUS "Come unto these yellow sands " Purcell. 

ROUND " Wind, gentle evergreen " Hayes. 

SONG" Where the bee sucks " Dr. Arne. 

MADRIGAL " Down in a flow'ry vale " Festa. 

SOLO VIOLONCELLO. 

TRIO" Full of doubt and full of fear "Bishop. 
God Save the Queen." 

Once a year the choristers prepared a play ; 
this was also performed in Dr. Elvey's drawing- 
room. 

These performances were a source of great 



84 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

pleasure to all his friends in Windsor and the 
neighbourhood, and by this means a taste for 
good music was steadily cultivated in Windsor. 
Speaking of the choristers reminds one that at 
this period they had a somewhat remarkable man, 
Josiah French, for their schoolmaster. 

He was one of the two good basses described by 
Dr. Elvey as being in the choir when he went to 
Windsor. This man was greatly respected by 
everyone and more especially by the boys for 
he did not believe in spoiling the child by sparing 
the rod. French was of artistic tastes ; his walls 
were covered with oil-paintings, not only in the 
rooms, but in the passages, landings, and stairs, 
from hall to garret. 

He was a keen collector of objets d'art and the 
happy possessor of a gold-headed malacca cane 
with which King George III. used to walk about 
Windsor. 

Bristow, the artist, a constant visitor at his 
house, having supplied every nook and corner 
with almost living specimens of his art, was occu- 
pied in filling up the panels and doors with his 
inventive genius. At this time a pet dog belong- 
ing to the wife of one of the Eton masters died, 
and she sent for Bristow in order to keep in 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 85 

memory the departed animal by having it included 
in a picture. Bristow did not care for the job, 
but having the offer of good terms, he reluctantly 
consented to carry out the work. 

When the oil-painting was delivered, the like- 
ness of the dead favourite did not answer the 
lady's expectations. At an interview, the artist 
having been paid his fee according to agreement, 
she suggested certain alterations of which he did 
not approve ; but to satisfy her he took away the 
picture, which was returned to its owner a few 
days later, with a tin pot tied to a string added to 
the tail of the dog. 

No amount of entreaty would induce Bristow to 
touch the canvas again. 

During the visit of the Emperor Napoleon to 
the Queen at Windsor in 1853, a rather amusing 
incident occurred. 

The day after his arrival Dr. Elvey and a pupil 
were on their way to afternoon service at the 
Chapel, when they were astonished to see Mr. 
French (who, by the bye, was an enthusiastic auto- 
graph hunter) running down the hill from the Castle 
towards them, his hat off in one hand, the other 
waving a piece of paper above his head in the 
most frantic manner, all the time shouting at the 



86 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

top of his voice, " I've got it. I've got it." In 
answer to Dr. Elvey's anxious inquiry, " What 
have you got ? " he gasped out at last, between 
struggles for breath, " Why, the Emperor's auto- 
graph, to be sure." 

A short period after this, poor French was 
leaving his house to attend service at the Chapel, 
when, turning back for something he had forgotten, 
he dropped into a chair, and died in a moment, 
from disease of the heart. He left no will, and all 
his valuable collections were sold, including the 
aforesaid gold-headed stick, which was bought by 
Mr. Lockey, and duly flourished whenever he 
came to Windsor. 

By the way, Mr. Lockey was for a few years a 
lay-clerk in the St. George's choir. He was a very 
fine singer, and all who heard him felt that his 
provincial fame would soon reach the ears of the 
London entrepreneurs ; and, once heard at Exeter 
Hall, his success as the leading tenor in sacred 
music was assured. He had the crowning distinc- 
tion of singing the tenor music in " Elijah " at a 
first performance of that oratorio in Birmingham 
in 1846, and winning the gratitude of Mendelssohn 
himself. Curiously enough, the two happened to 
be walking together in the High Street at Oxford 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 87 

when the tidings of Elvey's appointment at St. 
George's Chapel reached the city. 

Dr. Elvey wrote very effective anthems to show 
off the rare excellence of Lockey, and Foster, then 
a celebrated boy in the choir ; these his modesty 
has withheld from publication. 

Foster, who is now an alto in Westminster 
Abbey, still speaks with much affection of his old 
master, and of the excellent musical education he 
gave him. 

Elvey trained all his choristers to read music 
accurately, and this boy was especially noted. 
When Mendelssohn first produced " St. Paul," the 
Prince Consort sent down to ask the Doctor to 
bring up " little Foster " to the Castle to sing over 
parts of the new oratorio to the Queen and himself. 

Among other pieces, Foster sang " Jerusalem " 
and " I will sing of Thy great mercies." 

Her Majesty was so pleased with his perfor- 
mance, that, at the close, she crossed the room 
and patted him approvingly on the head. 



88 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XII. 

EARLY in December of the year 1849, Queen 
Adelaide died at Stanmore Priory. She 
had always taken a keen interest in Elvey and his 
work at the Chapel, attending the service there on 
every opportunity when she was in Windsor. 

When any member of the royal family died, it 
was, and is still, the custom that all the keys of the 
Chapel, those of the organ-loft and organ included, 
should be handed to the Lord Chamberlain, pend- 
ing the making of arrangements for the funeral. 

Usually, Sir George Smart, organist of the 
Chapel Royal, St. James's, came down to Windsor 
to preside on these occasions. When Queen 
Adelaide died, Sir George Elvey, who had always 
felt his deposition to be a slight, acting on the 
advice of Lord Wriothesley Russell, drove to 
Stanmore Priory, and represented to the autho- 
rities the interest the late Queen Dowager had 
always taken in the music at the Chapel. He was 
sure it would have been her wish for him to play 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 89 

at her funeral, and he ultimately gained his point. 
He was enabled to make the necessary arrange- 
ments himself, and thenceforth presided at his own 
organ at all State ceremonials. 

His happy home life was not unmixed with 
sorrow ; for his wife, always fragile and delicate, 
was during the latter years of her life a source of 
great anxiety and care. Together they passed 
through the sorrow of losing, one after another, 
many bright little lives which had come to gladden 
their home. It seemed as if the children, inheriting 
their mother's delicate constitution, could not, even 
with the loving care of a devoted father and mother 
and a faithful nurse, take sufficient hold on life to 
rise superior to the ordinary illnesses incidental to 
the most carefully nurtured childhood. One only, 
his father's namesake, survived a puny, white- 
faced boy, a hothouse plant, reared with much 
tenderness and judicious care. 

Mr. C. J. Verrinder, Mus. Doc., a pupil of Sir 
George's, and now organist at St. Mary's, West 
Kensington, says: 

" My first relations with Master George, my 
master's son, were rather unfortunate. 

"He was a big boy, long and thin, when I was 
introduced to the domestic circle. No one ever 



go LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

said nay to the son and heir for fear of offending 
the father and mother, for he was the very apple 
of their eye. He had never been allowed to have 
companions or play rough games, but one fine 
morning he brought his whip-top into my practice 
room, where I was playing, and began to make a 
noise at my back, as I sat with my face to the 
piano. 

" I called to him to stop, but he was not to be 
thwarted ; so quickly jumping off my perch, I gave 
him to understand that I would not have it. He 
immediately lashed my legs with the whip. I had 
been launched upon the sea of life at eight years 
of age, and had had the usual cuffs from senior 
boys, canings from masters, etc., but, at the age of 
thirteen, when smarting under cuts administered 
by a younger boy, you do not stop to think 
whether the lashes are dealt by your master's son 
or anyone else ; so, regardless of consequences, I 
soundly boxed Master George's ears, and bundled 
him out of the room, howling, you may be sure. 

" For this I was severely reprimanded by Mrs. 
Elvey, who quickly appeared on the scene, followed 
by cook, parlour-maid, and faithful Ellen, who 
stood aghast at my audacity. 

" I defied all female interference, and was left 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 91 

severely alone. However, when Master George 
discovered that I was not to be trifled with, we 
became warm friends. I taught him how to sail 
boats, spin tops, and other boyish tricks. I licked 
his dog into shape as well, and much amused 
was the Doctor to see this animal and his funny 
ways. 

" Years after, when I went up to Oxford for my 
Mus. Bac. degree, I visited George Elvey at his 
rooms at New College, and became a member of 
the same old place." 

* * * * * 

Of the high quality of the choir of St. George's 
during Dr. Elvey's period there is no question. A 
well-known musician relates how he once sat up 
with him in the organ-loft during service. The 
Psalms were started with organ as usual, and no 
sooner had this been done than he exclaimed, " I 
have forgotten my keys ; I must go and fetch them." 
He started off, the choir singing on. In due time 
he returned to the organ, and tried, with a soft stop, 
to see if his singers had dropped in pitch. They 
were dead in tune, and the accompaniment was 
taken up. A better proof of training could hardly 
be given. 

This test of their powers, Dr. Verrinder, one of 



92 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

his pupils, says, far from being an isolated case, 
was of frequent occurrence. 

When asked " How did you choose boys ?" he 
replied on one occasion, " I like to hear a boy sing 
something a song, for instance. I could tell at 
once from this if he had the making of a chorister 
in him. You cannot give boys musical talent, and 
the organist often has a trying task in endeavouring 
to do it." 

Sir George, in his later years, used to relate 
some amusing incidents that took place when he 
was selecting choristers. 

One was of a boy very strongly recommended to 
him from Wales, with what was supposed to be a 
very remarkable voice. This it certainly was, for the 
boy was really a young man, and Sir George would 
tell with much amusement how he was thoroughly 
alarmed when, the upper notes being attempted, 
the candidate turned nearly black in the face with 
the effort. 

He was advised for the future to be content 
with his natural voice, and not to put himself to 
such a painful strain. This advice he owned to 
having received from others. 

Another tale was of a boy who came with his 
parents from some remote country place, the whole 






SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 93 

party dressed in such extraordinary costumes that 
they looked as if they were travelling mounte- 
banks. Upon hearing the boy sing, and the result 
being anything but satisfactory, his mother, as an 
excuse, remarked, " The Jews could not sing the 
Lord's song in a strange land." 

She evidently did not wish to part with her son, 
for nothing could exceed her joy when Dr. Elvey 
told her that he did not think her boy would be 
of any use for St. George's. 

Once a tall soldier appeared at his house with 
his little son, having come a considerable distance 
in the hope of the child's being elected to fill the 
vacancy in the choir. 

Dr. Elvey at once took them into his drawing- 
room, and endeavoured to test the child's voice, 
but not a sound would the little rascal utter, in 
spite of various promises of buns, etc., made to 
him by his father, added to piteous descriptions of 
his mother's grief when he should return. 

At the first opportunity he dashed out of the 
room, and began kicking at the front door with all 
his might and main. 

It is impossible to say what might have occurred 
had not one of the servants come out and checked 
the disturbance. 



94 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

It was certainly ludicrous to see a man of six 
feet utterly baulked by a child of seven or eight 
years old. 

At that period, and indeed till 1867, the same 
men and boys served Eton College as well as the 
Royal Chapel, and, with the one exception of 
Durham, they were better paid than any other 
choir, and had the advantage of being within 
thirty minutes of London. 

During this time Dr. Elvey was constantly 
called upon to preside at the College organ ; in 
fact, on all important occasions his assistance was 
asked for, and readily granted. 

At the opening of the new instrument a whole 
octave of services was held, with Dr. Elvey as 
accompanist. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 95 



CHAPTER XIII. 

ON weekday mornings the music at St. George's 
was mostly selected from Boyce, Greene, 
and Croft's collections, frequently unaccompanied, 
and Dr. Verrinder says : " I confess I have never 
heard the compositions of Gibbons, Purcell, Blow, 
etc., given with so much artistic and devotional 
feeling as in the old days at the Chapel. 

" The organ accompaniments to the Psalms 
were a thing to hear and not forget." 

Mr. E. H. Thorne, who was also his pupil, 
says, " His style of organ-playing was pre-emi- 
nently a grand Church style, while his reading of 
many of the anthems of Croft, Boyce, Greene, and 
others was most striking, and instinct with reli- 
gious, dramatic, and poetic feeling." 

While the Metropolitan Church and Abbey 
were in a cold and languishing state about the 
middle of the century, St. George's Chapel pos- 
sessed the finest and best- trained choir in England. 
On Sunday afternoons people flocked from all 



9 6 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

parts to hear as good a rendering of modern 
Church music as can now be heard in St. Paul's 
Cathedral, the organ being frequently supple- 
mented by instrumentalists from the Queen's and 
Guards' bands. 

After the Sunday services the tea-parties at the 
Elveys' house were great functions. 

Always hospitable, on these occasions they kept 
open house, and friends from a distance were 
always most welcome. 

Frequently the drawing-room was filled with 
visitors, among whom were whole families of 
Arbuthnots, Wrenches, Whitbreads, etc., etc. ; also 
Mrs. Smythe, whose daughter afterwards married 
Marshal Canrobert. 

What a crowd of memories flit before one's 
mental vision when one thinks of those who used 
to meet in Dr. Elvey's drawing-room. Here 
originated the Choir Benevolent Fund Society. 
Grey, Lockey, and Shoubridge were wont to 
meet frequently to discuss and develop the scheme, 
and few festivals were more successful than the 
first one he T d in St. George's Chapel. Sir Frederick 
Ouseley used to rest in that room after playing 
extempore fugues on the Chapel organ, or Handel's 
chorus, " Fix't in His everlasting seat," over which 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 97 

he would get so excited that he has been known 
to break off before the end from sheer exhaustion 
and inability to execute the music at the pace he 
had worked up to. 

And what a magnificent view there is from the 
windows of that drawing-room ! Cliefden, for- 
merly the Duke of Westminster's seat on the 
Thames, which one Sunday night the Doctor and 
his friends watched in flames ; Eton College, near 
at hand ; and Stoke Pogis Church, nestled among 
the trees afar off these are sights that, if once 
seen, will never be forgotten. 

How many are left who used to assemble in 
the room high up on the wall above Thames 
Street, and can bring back as photographs happy 
recollections of the past ? 

One great friend of the Doctor's at this time, 
whom we have omitted to mention, is the Hon. 
Captain Bertie, his acquaintance with whom dated 
from his Oxford days. 

Captain Bertie was an officer in the Blues ; he 
acquired a taste for the organ at Oxford, and was 
a diligent pupil of Dr. Stephen Elvey's, with whom 
he studied. He collected a large number of the 
works of the best masters, and also bought up and 
preserved many manuscripts left by Dr. Crotch, 

II 



98 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Professor of Music at the university, whose pupil 
he had been. He fully shared with the brothers 
Elvey their spirit of enthusiastic admiration for 
that great lecturer and contrapuntist. 

When Captain Bertie came to Windsor with his 
regiment, he always called upon his old friend, 
with whom he ever enjoyed a chat ; and, on 
Sunday afternoons, the concluding voluntary was 
usually played as a duet, the gallant captain 
taking the upper part, and Dr. Elvey the bass 
and pedals. 

" Let Sinai tell, 1 ' from Crotch's " Palestine," and 
the overtures and choruses from Handel's oratorios 
were favourite selections on these occasions. 

The Captain, being a very small man, and also 
near-sighted, there was always a great struggle to 
keep him well-balanced on the organ stool. He 
kept his nose so close to the book that there was 
much difficulty in turning over for him, and as for 
changing from one manual to another, it was 
positively neck-breaking. Generally, during that 
operation, he would lose his place, if not his 
balance, and one or other of Dr. Elvey s pupils 
had to pick him up, both literally and figuratively. 
For this service the requital was generally a half- 
sovereign. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 99 

At the Spital barracks Captain Bertie had in 
his quarters a very fine grand pianoforte, by 
Broadwood. Whether this was an annoyance to 
some of the younger officers, or his love for music 
preventing his joining in their sports or pastimes 
irritated them, it is impossible to say, but these 
gentlemen, during the Captain's absence, smashed 
every string. It cost a considerable sum to re- 
place them and repair the damage, but the event 
soon blew over. 

When, after the little war with China, an envoy 
had to negotiate the terms of peace, Captain 
Bertie joined the staff. 

Before setting sail for the Celestial Empire he 
informed Dr. Elvey that he had made his will, 
and left him his library and manuscripts. 

The Captain was not long after attacked with 
yellow fever, from which he died. 

In due course the large packing-cases of music, 
etc., arrived at Windsor, and Dr. Elvey became 
possessed of a most valuable addition to his 
library. 



loo LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XIV. 

A NOTHER gentleman who was a friend of 
<L\ the Doctor's for very many years was Mr. 
Tuckerman, the son of a rich merchant in America. 
He was a fair organist in his way, and had some 
knowledge of music. He came over to England 
armed with good letters of introduction, with the 
avowed object of collecting music and information 
(his ultimate intention being to found a library in 
New York), and to make himself acquainted with 
English form and mannerism, more especially in 
connection with Cathedral music, of which the 
Americans had a very imperfect knowledge. Thus 
began a friendship with Dr. Elvey, which lasted 
until Dr. Tuckerman's death in 1892. 

Mr. Tuckerman's plan was to get letters to the 
organist of each cathedral in turn say Durham, 
York, Chester, etc. and to settle down in each 
city for one, two, or three months, as the case 
might be, make observations and copious notes, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 101 

and collect books on music, etc., then to start off 
with these to his native land, deposit his treasures, 
and give a series of musical lectures. These 
finished, he would return to this side of the 
Atlantic, take another district, and go through 
the same process. 

After two or three of these visits it was thought 
by his compatriots that his efforts on behalf of the 
advancement of music in his own country would 
be very much enhanced if his hands could be 
strengthened with the title and diploma of Doctor 
of Music. Elvey, and several other eminent 
cathedral organists, etc., drew up a petition, and 
sent it, with some of Tuckerman's compositions, 
to the then Archbishop of Canterbury, who granted 
their prayer, and conferred upon him the much- 
coveted distinction. 

In due course Dr. Tuckerman expressed a wish 
to go to Winchester, where Wesley, a notedly 
eccentric man, was organist. 

Wesley entertained far from friendly feelings 
for Dr. Elvey, as he had never forgiven him, as 
we have remarked previously, for the double defeat 
he had received at his hands. 

However, Dr. Elvey wrote him a letter, and, 
armed with this, our American friend presented 



102 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

himself at Wesley's door, and was ushered into 
the drawing-room. 

On the appearance of the great man, Dr. Tucker- 
man, by way of breaking ground, ventured to say 
where he had come from, stated the object and 
purpose of his visit, and wound up by producing 
the letter from Dr. Elvey, which he handed to the 
friend (?) to whom it was addressed. 

Wesley tore open the epistle, read it, and then 
threw it into the fire behind him, exclaiming, 
" Elvey ! Who is Elvey ? " 

Whereupon he rang the bell violently. The 
manservant, rushing in with great haste, his master 
addressed him in loud and distinct tones that were 
quite unmistakable: "John, this man is an im- 
postor. Show him the door ! " 

This operation was duly performed, and Dr. 
Tuckerman's feelings may be better imagined than 
described. He drove to the station forthwith, and 
making his way back to Windsor, presented him- 
self to the Doctor, and explained, in no measured 
terms, the sort of reception he had met with at 
Winchester. 

He had been ready to make allowance for little 
eccentricities, but for such behaviour he was wholly 
unprepared. 



SIR GEORGE- J. ELVEY. 103 

Dr. Elvey made the best excuse he could, and 
the subject was allowed to drop, but not without 
leaving a most uncomfortable impression. 

On the Saturday fortnight after this gentleman 
had made his unfortunate pilgrimage to Win- 
chester, a telegram was put into Elvey' s hands, 
which ran thus : " Send down your friend Tucker- 
man ; I have put up ' The Wilderness ' for him to 
hear to-morrow.' 1 

Mr. Verrinder was at once sent off to Park 
Street with this missive, and on his return with 
Dr. Tuckerman to the Cloisters, the first question 
the latter asked was, " What shall I do ? " Elvey 
replied, " I don't like to urge too much upon you 
after your recent experience, but if you take my 
advice you will go. But telegraph an answer." 

Tuckerman went by an afternoon train. Dr. 
Wesley met him at the railway station, and lodged 
him courteously in his house. After dinner they 
went into the Cathedral, and for two hours Wesley 
played the organ in his best manner, chiefly ex- 
tempore. 

On Sunday morning, Wesley in E was the 
service ; at evensong the anthem was " The 
Wilderness,'' played as Wesley alone could play 
it. When Dr. Tuckerman returned to Windsor 



104 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

on Monday evening, he said he had most tho- 
roughly enjoyed his visit. 

In connection with this anthem the following 
bonmot is recorded of Dr. Stephen Elvey. 

He and Wesley were discussing some knotty 
point with considerable warmth, and at length 
Wesley, finding that he was getting the worst of 
the argument, exclaimed, " Elvey, you're a bear ; 
I won't talk to you any longer." 

To which Dr. Stephen promptly rejoined, "Well, 
if I am, I won't growl in your * Wilderness/ ' 

Another friend of this period wrote the following 
account after Sir George's death : 

" Truly do I myself feel the loss of Sir George, 
for whom I have cherished an almost lifelong 
affection. I shall never forget my first introduc- 
tion to him, and can never cease to feel deeply 
grateful for all his kindness to me. It was in 
February, 1847, that I first came under his influence. 
I was tutor to the sons of Lord Wriothesley Rus- 
sell, who was then in residence, and had frequent 
opportunities of hearing the Doctor's beautiful 
organ accompaniments at the services in St. 
George's. One afternoon, just as we were finish- 
ing our lessons, Lord Russell came, and, with a 
very kind remark, said that if I would accept 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 105 

them, he should be very glad to give me ten 
lessons on the organ, and that Dr. Elvey would 
be ready to begin them the next morning. 

" I need not say how eagerly I embraced such 
a precious opportunity. I had never before played 
any organ but the little one of eight stops in my 
father's church, and had never advanced beyond 
hymn-tunes. 

" The Doctor took great interest in me, and r 
besides the two lessons a week, I had two prac- 
tices on the organ, and daily practices on an old 
piano at my lodgings. 

"After the lessons were over the Doctor did 
me the honour to propose my taking a morning 
service at St. George's, but I had not the nerve 
for that, and gave a recital, at his suggestion, to 
Lord Russell and his friends instead. 

"After I had finished my performance, the 
Doctor, at our request, extemporized a fugue. It 
was a splendid impromptu, and delighted me. 

" I did not go again to Windsor till the winter 
of 1849, an< 3> during that long interval, never had 
an opportunity of playing any organ, great or 
small. 

" During the short time I was there on this 
second occasion, the Doctor showed me every 



106 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

kindness, asking me very frequently to spend an 
evening at his house, sometimes nearly every 
evening in the week. He took me also to re- 
hearsals, and talked with me in the intervals, 
describing the character of the music, and pointing 
out special features. 

"At home he played and sang to me. In one 
song was a shake which he did with uncommon 
purity. 

" Again and again, but never too often, he 
played me Mendelssohn's * Lieder.' 

" During one of these musical evenings, I re- 
member the two servants rushed into the room, 
screaming that the sky was all on fire, and the 
end of the world was come. 

" We hastened out of doors, and found a most 
magnificent aurora, such as I have never since 
seen. 

" We took out a newspaper, and found we could 
read it quite easily. 

" On one occasion, some years later, I went with 
Elvey to the afternoon service at Eton. On the 
way he told me that he was going to have Beck- 
with's chant ; it was not a chant he liked, but the 
boys had asked him for it, as they were always 
doing, and he couldn't refuse them. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 107 

" Most of my hymn-tunes I have sent to my 
old friend for his opinion, and most gratefully 
shall I ever remember the prompt kindness with 
which he attended to my request, and the sugges- 
tions which he made for their improvement. It 
is not long since, in writing to me, he said, ' I 
shall never change my style, and I advise you not 
to change yours/ ' 



io8 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XV. 

FOR Her Majesty's birthday in 1850 the 
Doctor produced a cantata, which was per- 
formed before the Queen and Prince Albert at 
the Castle. The beautiful words for this were 
written by William Ball, and the programme is 
given in full, as doubtless it will be interesting to 

many. 

OVERTURE. 

RECITATIVE Mr. Lockey. 

The rolling year leads on the bounteous May, 
And smiling Peace, beneath Britannia's sway, 
Weaving bright gifts to grace the domes of Fame, 
Now consecrates, amid the world's acclaim, 
Her proudest wreath to grace Victoria's name. 

AIR Mr. Lockey. 

Sov'reign, before whose honour'd throne, 

On this thy natal day, 
Thy grateful people bow them down, 

And faithful homage pay, 
Accept, O Monarch of our hearts, 

The off'ring which we bring ; 
The lay our tuneful joy imparts, 

Our cheerful voices sing. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 109 

While heartfelt raptures fill the air, 

And hail the festive day, 
Proclaiming thus another year, 

Of thy maternal sway : 
And prayers ascend from ev'ry tongue, 

That all to thee be given 
That can on earth thy reign prolong, 

And crown thy trust in heaven. 

CHORUS. 

The signal chime breaks on the list'ning hour, 

The joyous round peals from the lofty tower ; 

From countless masts the ready standards fly, 

And eager volleys shake the vaulted sky ; 

The many-sounding seas their echoes pour, 

And answ'ring thunders bound from shore to shore ; 

-" GOD SAVE THE QUEEN ! " old England's myriads cry, 

" GOD SAVE THE QUEEN ! " her distant sons reply ; 

Electric fires seem round the globe to roll, 

Speeding the patriot-shout from pole to pole; 

And lands, erewhile of human eye unseen, 

Now raise, o'er snow-clad hills or prairies green, 

The all-commingling strain 

"GOD SAVE THE QUEEN ! " 

MADRIGAL 

Through the realm, from sainted pile, 

Chapel rude, and pillar'd aisle, 
Loyal supplications flow, 

And holy pray'rs their grace bestow ; 
Now the sacred choirs upraise 

Anthems meet of humble praise, 



no LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

While the inspiring organ rolls 

Harmonious glories o'er our souls. 
Whence this solemn jubilee ? 
QUEEN OF ALBION ! 'tis for thee. 
For thee our aspirations blend, 
Our sceptred Dove of Peace and friend ; 
For thee and all by Heav'n's decree 
Thrice-blest who live endear'd to thee ! 

CHORUS. 

Again the chime again o'er hall and bow'r 

The joyous sound peals from the lofty tow'r : 

From keep and spire the far-seen banners fly, 

Redoubling volleys shake the vaulted sky ; 

The gay parade convenes the brilliant throng, 

And rich pavilions teem with dance and song. 

" GOD SAVE THE QUEEN," the tuneful minstrels cry ; 

" GOD SAVE THE QUEEN," exulting crowds reply ; 

Art's mimic-stars of upward lustre spring, 

And 'mid the clouds their beauteous colours fling : 

Night seems to view apart the kindling scene, 

In festal light moves all to life terrene, 

And heart and voice rejoice " GOD SAVE THE QUEEN." 



PRAYER FOR THE ROYAL FAMILY. 

SOLO Mrs. Alexander Newton. 

O Thou, supreme o'er earth and skies, 
Extend Thy all-sustaining hand, 

And bless with all the gifts we prize 
The Sov'reign of our native land. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. ill 

SOLO. 

With Thy enduring aids, O Lord, 

Our royal Albert's path illume, 
And life-long joys, in sweet accord, 

There wreathe with honour's fadeless plume. 

CHORUS. 

Great Father, guard their princely race, 
And, when the claims of earth decay, 

Shed o'er the change Thy dews of grace, 
And lead them to eternal day. 

FINAL CHORUS. 

Thine, Britannia, evermore 

Be freedom's hallow'd ground, 
Where peace and plenty love to pour 

Their choicest gifts around. 
And long be thine (the crowning joy 

That greets thy matchless sway) 
Through circling years the glad employ 

Of this auspicious day. 
While echoing thousands load the gale, 

Waving their laurels green, 
With song and shout, " VICTORIA, hail ! 

All hail ! LONG LIVE THE QUEEN." 

This work opens with a fine overture which 
introduces as a subject the National Anthem, first 
allotted to the wind instruments, and afterwards 
taken up with grand effect by the strings ; then 
follows a recitative and beautiful tenor song, a 



112 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

chorus, and after this a fine madrigal, which shows 
the versatility of the composer's talent. After the 
prayer for the Royal Family, this most interesting 
composition is brought to a close with a very 
effective and jubilant chorus. 

Those who watched the faces of the royal 
party during the progress of the work plainly saw 
how delighted they were, both with the music and 
the way in which it was performed, and were thus 
a little prepared for the very kind reception the 
Doctor met with from Her Majesty and the Prince 
Consort. At the finale they sent for him, and 
lavished on him their warm approbation at the 
treat he had, with such infinite pains and trouble, 
prepared for them ; neither did they forget to 
express the warmest pleasure at the way in which 
the various executants had fulfilled the parts 
allotted to them. 

This work has frequently been given since ; the 
last time that the composer conducted it was 
at Buxton in the Jubilee year. It was performed 
in Windsor the year before, and he wrote thus at 
the time : 

" Do you remember my cantata for the Queen's 
birthday ? It was done at the Windsor and Eton 
Choral Society's last concert, and I conducted it. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 113 

We had a fair string band, and some wind instru- 
ments. I suppose this will be my last appearance 
in the musical world." 

In November an idea which had for some time 
been evolving itself in Dr. Elvey's brain took 
effect. 

He had conceived the plan of having a grand 
musical festival at Windsor, by way of commemo- 
ration of some of the early English Church 
composers, of whom he had discovered that 
several had been his predecessors at St. George's, 
and it occurred to him that a public performance 
of some of their works might afford much enjoy- 
ment to lovers of Cathedral music. 

The idea thus conceived met with a kind and 
ready response from the Dean and Canons of 
Windsor. The commemoration was intended to 
have been set on foot quietly, but the very extent 
of the arrangements, coupled with one or two 
brief announcements in the papers, rapidly spread 
the news. 

The following account is culled from various 
newspapers which appeared at the time : 

" The Royal Borough of Windsor was the 
theatre on Friday last of a scene the equal of 
which has not probably been witnessed in Eng- 



114 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

land at any period since the Reformation. Dr. 
Elvey, the accomplished organist of St. George's 
Chapel, had conceived the felicitous idea of de- 
monstrating to the public the majestic effect to be 
produced by the performance of a chronological 
selection from the works of our English composers 
of ecclesiastical music, and accordingly organized 
the celebration of the morning and evening 
Cathedral services on a large scale. As the day 
approached, the excitement increased, and arrange- 
ments were made for the accommodation of as 
many of the public as the Chapel could possibly 
hold. The choir was set apart for the Dean and 
Canons and their friends, and other persons were 
admitted to that rather limited space by ticket, 
while the nave was provided with seats, and 
thrown open to the public. 

<( As a grand performance of sacred music, got 
up extemporaneously and without the possibility 
of a rehearsal, the services of the day stand 
unrivalled." 

At half-past ten the procession of choristers was 
formed in the Cloisters. In addition to the 
members of the Chapel choir, there were lay- 
vicars from the Chapel Royal, St. James's, West- 
minster Abbey, Canterbury, Salisbury, Worcester, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 115 

and Lichfield Cathedrals ; also several members 
of the Sacred Harmonic Society, and the organists 
of Gloucester, Bristol, Worcester, and Rochester. 

The treble parts were strengthened by the 
choristers of Her Majesty's Chapel Royal and the 
choristers of St. Andrew's Church, Wells Street, 
forming altogether a choir of upwards of 100 
voices. 

The afternoon service was attended by Prince 
Albert, the Prince of Wales, and the Princess 
Royal. 

The Rev. H. Butterfield chanted the service, 
and the following members of the Chapel were 
present : the Dean, the Hon. and Rev. Lord 
Wriothesley Russell, the Hon. and Rev. H. C. 
Cust, the Hon. and Rev. E. Moon, the Rev. W. 
Canning, the Rev. W. Markham, the Rev. C. 
Pack, and the Rev. J. Gore. 

The prayers in the morning were read by the 
Rev. W. Markham and Lord Wriothesley Russelt> 
and Dr. G. Elvey presided at the organ. 

The solo parts were well sung by Messrs. 
Turner, Knowles, Marriott, Hobbs, Mudge, 
Bridgewater, and Whitehouse. 

Then came the pealing chorus, and seldom 
have the fine compositions of the respective 



ii6 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

writers been rendered with such sublimity and 

effect. 

The following is a copy of the official pro- 
gramme : 

MORNING SERVICE. 

CHANT " Venite " Humphreys, 1666. 

CHANT Ps. xxxviii., xxxix. Morley, 1600. 

CHANT Ps. xl. From an ancient harmony. Crotch. 

TE DEUM AND BENEDICTUS Gibbons, 1620. 

ANTHEM "Hosanna " Gibbons, 1620. 

(Gibbons was organist of the Chapel Royal.) 

ANTHEM, LITANY, AND RESPONSES Tallis, 1570. 
(Tallis was organist of the Chapel Royal, and 
was the first to enrich the Cathedral service with 
harmony.) 

ANTHEMS SUNG AFTER THE SERVICE. 

" Gloria in Excelsis " Marbecke, 1550. 
(Marbecke was organist'of St. George's Chapel, 
Windsor, and was the first composer of the 
Cathedral service. Having published his " Book 
of Common Prayer Noted," in 1550, he narrowly 
escaped martyrdom, having been convicted on 
a charge of favouring the Reformation, together 
with Anthony Pierson, Robert Testwood, and 
Henry Filmer. The latter was burnt below the 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 117 

North Terrace of Windsor Castle ; but Marbecke 
obtained, through the Bishop of Winchester, the 
King's pardon. After this, Marbecke wrote seve- 
ral works against Popery.) 

"Lord, for Thy tender mercies' sake" Richard Fat 'rant ', 1580. 
(Richard Farrant, organist of St. George's 
Chapel, 1580.) 

"Sing we merrily unto God our strength" Dr. Child, 1660. 
(Dr. Child was organist of St. George's, 
Windsor, and was a liberal benefactor to the 
borough, having bequeathed a sum of money 
to the Corporation. He likewise paved the body 
of the choir at his own expense, which paving 
remains to this day. Dr. Child was buried in St. 
George's, and a stone, with his epitaph, lies close 
to the organ-loft door.) 

" I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day " Dr. Blow, 1675. 
(Organist of St. Paul's Cathedral, and, upon the 
death of Purcell, of Westminster Abbey.) 

" O, give thanks " Henry Purcell, 1685. 
(Organist of Westminster Abbey.) 

"I have set God always before me." John Goldwin, 1710. 
(Organist and master of the choristers, St. 
George's Chapel, Windsor.) 



ii8 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

"Cry aloud and shout" Dr. Croft, 1720. 
(Organist, master of the boys, and composer to 
the Chapel Royal.) 

"God is our hope and strength" Dr. Greene^ 1745. 
(Organist and composer to the Chapel Royal 
and organist of St. Paul's Cathedral.) 

"O, give thanks " Dr. Boyce, 1766. 
(Organist and composer to the Chapel Royal.) 

"In that day" Dr. G.J. Elvey. 
(Organist to the Queen.) 

"O, praise the Lord, all ye heathen "Dr. G.J. Elvey. 

This anthem was written for three choirs, or 
twelve separate voice parts. The rehearsal of this 
skilful work was carried on in the nave of St. 
George's Chapel in order to get the proper balance 
of power, and to judge of the effect produced by 
the multiplicity of parts. The first choir opens 
with the subject in the plagal mode to the words 
of Psalm 117," O, praise the Lord, all ye heathen ; " 
after the development of this, the second choir 
sets in with another subject to the sentence, " For 
His merciful kindness ; " an episode for the third 
choir is introduced to the next verse of the psalm, 
" And the truth of the Lord." Upon a return to 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 119 

the first subject, all the parts are gradually used 
together ; then each choir separately leading on to 
the grand climax to the finale, " Hallelujah. 
Amen." 

At the evening service the anthem was, " O 
sing unto the Lord" (Purcell). 

It is impossible to do justice to this splendid 
performance, which was at that time quite unique. 
It showed Dr. Elvey's marvellous power of orga- 
nization, and the extreme attention he paid to little 
details, so essential to the perfect success of such 
an undertaking. 

No one can form any conception of the amount 
of labour required for the carrying out of such a 
festival. The collecting of the voices ; the writing 
of letters in connection therewith ; the selecting of 
the music, which, in many cases, had to be copied ; 
the rehearsal of each choir separately ; and the 
amount of experience required to hold all these 
atoms together, necessitates an amount of skill 
which at that day was seldom to be met with. 

" The pealing tones of the magnificent organ, 
played with the masterly ability of Dr. Elvey, and 
responded to by a choir at once so numerous and 
so correct, chiming in with its multitude of voices, 
with all the precision of a perfect and well-regu- 



120 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

lated machine, was productive of an effect which 
could only be appreciated by those present, and 
which is unsusceptible of description." 

The best judges of music pronounced the per- 
formance perfect, and the Dean and Canons ex- 
pressed their great delight, and thanked Dr. Elvey 
for the immense trouble he had taken. At the 
close of the afternoon service Prince Albert asked 
for a repetition of his anthem, " In that day," and 
it was given with, if possible, increased effect. 

The service ended, the whole of the choir pro- 
ceeded to the Castle, and beneath the dining-room 
windows serenaded the Queen and the Royal 
Family with the National Anthem. 

They most graciously acknowledged this exhi- 
bition of devotion and loyalty by appearing at the 
windows and bowing. Three cheers were then 
given for Her Majesty ; and thus ended a festival 
long to be remembered in Windsor ever after- 
wards designated as the " Festival of the Ancients." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 121 



CHAPTER XVI. 

IN the Great International Exhibition of 1851 
three magnificent organs were erected, and 
upon one of these Dr. Elvey was requested to 
perform on the opening day. 

The St. George's choir were also engaged to 
take part. The arrival of the party at Paddington 
was most disastrous. A steady downpour of rain 
had churned the London mud into a black paste. 
No vehicle was to be had, and the choir had to 
make their way, as best they could, from the 
railway station to Hyde Park under dripping 
umbrellas. 

According to previous arrangement, Dr. Elvey 
appeared at the Exhibition arrayed in his robes, 
and intense was his amusement at the effect 
produced on the crowd, and even on the stolid 
policemen by his gorgeous apparel. With cries of 
" Make way, make way," he was ushered into the 
building, and exploding with merriment, quickly 
made his way to the organ. 



122 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Amongst other pieces he played Handel's 
" Hallelujah Chorus "as a duet with Dr. Wilde. 

The organization of the choirs was anything 
but perfect. They were huddled together in the 
gallery without knowing quite who was to be the 
conductor, or where the music was to come from. 
Sir George Smart, upon a given signal, began to 
conduct with a baton having a large gold crown 
on the top, but the voices were not properly dis- 
tributed, and, some having parts and some not, the 
effect was far from satisfactory. 

During this exhibition the Cologne Choir were 
in England ; they came to Windsor and sang 
some German Lieder in the nave of St. George's, 
under the direction of Herr Lindpaintner, Dr. 
Elvey interspersing the vocal pieces with selec- 
tions on the organ. Their singing was magnifi- 
cent, and the crescendos and diminuendos came 
in waves of sound up the nave from the west end 
with remarkable effect, which made an impression 
never to be forgotten upon those who had the 
privilege of hearing it. 

Doubtless it was the remembrance of this musical 
treat which induced him to pay a brief visit to 
Cologne a few years after. 

Later in the year, the first start was made with 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 123 

what is now so widely known as " The Choir 
Benevolent Fund." The design of this fund was 
to secure a provision for aged and invalid members, 
to guarantee a fixed sum payable at the decease of 
members to their widows and children, and also to 
afford temporary assistance in time of need or 
affliction. 

These objects were to be accomplished by an 
annual contribution from the organists and lay- 
clerks connected with the cathedral and collegiate 
choirs, and by an appeal to the sympathy and 
kindness of all those interested in choral worship 
and the perpetuation of the works of great com- 
posers of English church music. Subsequently, 
the committee were enabled to extend their original 
work, and the widows of former members of the 
society received an additional sum of ^10 los. 

The fund was established under the patronage 
of H.M. the Queen and a large number of digni- 
taries of the Church. 

The first committee meeting was held in Dr. 
Elvey's drawing-room in the Cloisters, and he was 
ever after a warm supporter of the fund. 

He and his brother Stephen both took im- 
mense interest in its development and extension, 
and worked hard for it in many ways. 



124 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

The report of the Society for 1853 speaks thus 
of the assistance rendered by them : 

" The unwearied exertions of Dr. G. J. Elvey, 
organist of Windsor, and of Dr. Elvey, organist 
of New College, Oxford, deserve high com- 
mendation, both of these gentlemen having de- 
voted much valuable time to the service of the 
Society, in making the requisite preliminary 
arrangements." 

The fund was partly indebted for its support 
to the proceeds of festivals which were held in 
various parts of the country. 

Many of these, on a large scale, took place in 
St. George's Chapel ; among them the first ever 
held in aid of the fund, in 1853. 

Later on, Dr. Elvey became a member of the 
committee of management, and subsequent festivals 
were held in the Chapel in 1857, 1866, and 1876. 
Although somewhat anticipating the course of 
events, it may be mentioned here that the second 
of these festivals (1866) was the most successful 
(from a financial point of view, at least), probably 
owing to the fact that it took place the day after 
the wedding of H.R.H. Princess Christian, for 
which a great many strangers had come into the 
neighbourhood. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 125 

Early in the morning the people began to 
assemble, and by about eleven o'clock the beauti- 
ful building was full. The congregation included 
many of the Queen's guests who were staying at 
the Castle. The choir was, as usual, strengthened 
by gentlemen and choristers from Westminster 
Abbey, St. Paul's Cathedral, and the Chapel 
Royal, St. James's. Nearly a hundred voices 
assisted in rendering the music with a degree of 
perfection that only Cathedral choristers and lay- 
clerks can attain. 

After the service a succession of anthems was 
given, concluding with " Sing unto God," com- 
posed by Dr. Elvey in honour of the marriage of 
the Prince of Wales. 

This was particularly appropriate to the occa- 
sion, in view of the royal wedding which had 
taken place on the previous day. 

The anthem was ushered in with a symphony, 
in which were combined the merry peal of bells, 
the triumphant blast of trumpets, and other joyous 
sounds. 

The collection at this service, after paying all 
expenses, added ^108 to the funds of the society. 

In the evening, those who had taken part in 
the morning's service assisted at a concert which 



126 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

was given (also in aid of the fund) in St. Mark's 
Schools. 

A number of glees and madrigals, etc., were 
performed. 

The double work entailed by these two per- 
formances was very fatiguing for Dr. Elvey, but 
the immense interest he always took in his work, 
and his unwearied enthusiasm, carried him steadily 
over obstacles which would have repelled and 
crushed many a less vigorous and persevering 
character. 

Gradually a shadow crept over his home, for 
Mrs. Elvey, who for some time had been frail and 
weakly, began to develop signs of depression and 
disease. 

Week after week passed away, and the light of 
the home grew fainter and fainter. Month fol- 
lowed month ; doctors were summoned for con- 
sultation. Old medical friends hied from London, 
only to confirm the sad news that the delicate 
woman had become a bedridden invalid. A 
terrible blow was this, indeed, to her devoted 
husband, who seemed stunned and incapable of 
action. Frequently young Verrinder played the 
service at the Chapel, whilst Dr. Elvey sat sobbing 
by his side. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 127 

The former proved to him at this time a most 
kind and able assistant, training the choir, carrying 
on his correspondence, and in every way seeking 
to lighten his burden of care and sorrow. 

In July the cloud which had been overhang- 
ing so long burst upon him, and his devotedly 
loved and truly saintly wife passed to her eternal 
rest. 

Deeply did her husband and child mourn her 
loss ; but, terrible as was the blow, and broken- 
hearted though he was, he felt that he must now 
rouse himself and again take up the threads of his 
work, with which no personal feelings were long 
allowed to interfere. Thus, not many months 
after, we again find him preparing an anthem for 
the Gloucester Festival, the words of which he 
took from the 97th Psalm. 

Whilst composing this anthem his sister-in-law 
was busy working at some embroidery on a frame, 
and as the silk passed through the tightly-stretched 
canvas it made a noise resembling thunder. He 
was at this time writing the chorus, " Clouds and 
Darkness," and begged her to work as fast and as 
long as she could, that the sound of her needle 
might give him the needful inspiration. 

This anthem, as usual, he scored for an orchestra. 



128 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

It was a splendid work, and was received with 
great approbation. 

A gentleman thus wrote at the time : 

"By request Dr. Elvey has composed an anthem 
for the Gloucester Festival. He has adapted pas- 
sages from the 97th Psalm as part of his text, and 
the words of the Psalmist have inspired him with 
the happiest thoughts that have yet helped him 
to rank honourably among our most meritorious 
composers for the Church. 

" This anthem is in D major, and it opens with 
a spirited chorus, * The Lord is King/ and termi- 
nates with a clever fugato, ' For His mercy en- 
dure th for ever/ 

" It abounds in beautiful passages, and the cho- 
ruses are very grand and massive. The principal 
singers, orchestra, and chorus appear to vie with 
each other in giving effect to it. The chorus, 
'Clouds and Darkness/ is exceedingly effective, 
and the double chorus, 'At His sight the moun- 
tains are shaken/ is dramatic in expression, the 
music being made to convey the spirit of the 
words. 

' The concluding chorus is a clever specimen 
of writing, and displays Dr. Elvey's ability as a 
composer. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 129 

"This anthem will bear frequent repetition at 
festivals, being a work of more than ordinary 
merit.'' 

Dr. Elvey, as usual, took part of his choir to 
this festival, and himself conducted his anthem. 

Another work that occupied a great deal of his 
time during these solitary years was arranging the 
" Messiah" and " Judas Maccabaeus " for piano or 
organ, with vocal score, for Surman, The plates 
of this splendid edition of the noble Saxon's works 
were unfortunately bought, at Surman's death, by 
another music publisher, and, it is believed, were 
destroyed, greatly to the regret of those who know 
what a perfect edition this was. 

All the choruses, etc., bore the metronome 
marks made by Dr. Elvey with extreme care, 
in order to preserve the traditional time as he 
had received it, in direct succession from the 
composer. 

The autumn of the year 1852 is memorable in 
Windsor for the worst flood of the century. 

Eton was quite under water, the floods reaching 
the bottom of the Hundred Steps ; and as this 
occurred just at the time of the death of England's 
hero, the Duke of Wellington, it was always called 
the " Wellington Flood." 

K 



130 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

The " Iron " Duke's funeral was the next 
important event in which the Doctor took part. 

At six o'clock on the eventful morning (No- 
vember 1 8th), he made his way with his choir to 
St. Paul's Cathedral, there to join in the solemn 
service, England's last tribute of respect to the 
hero of Waterloo. It was a grand, solemn, and 
impressive sight. 

Speaking of the Duke, one is reminded of an 
amusing story that Dr. Elvey used to tell. 

Upon one occasion, entering one of the Royal 
Chapels with his spurs on, the chorister boys spied 
him, and after service, according to an ancient 
custom, surrounded him and demanded " spur- 
money." 

To this he replied, " Say your gamut," and 
nothing would he give them until this was done. 

Asking for spur-money was an old custom at 
Canterbury when Sir George was a boy, and he 
used to relate with amusement how startled an 
old farmer would often be when, having wandered 
into the Cathedral on market-day, the choristers, 
ever on the watch, pounced on him for this fine. 

This old custom he re-introduced at St. George's, 
and, greatly to the surprise of some unwary gen- 
tlemen who rode into Windsor to attend the service, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 131 

and clinked, all unheeding, into the Chapel with 
their spurs, they were caught, as soon as service 
was over, and not permitted to quit the building 
until some of their superfluous cash was trans- 
ferred to the pockets of the eager boys. 



132 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XVII. 

IN 1853 the Chapel organ was again rebuilt 
and enlarged by Messrs. Gray and Davison, 
under Dr. Elvey's superintendence. 

New reeds were added, and considerable addi- 
tions and alterations made to the stops. 

The hautboy in the swell organ was replaced 
by an oboe, and a new double-trumpet, cornopean, 
and clarion were added. 

The great organ was fitted with a new posaune 
and clarion. 

In the choir organ the bassoon was replaced 
by a piccolo, and the clarionet by a corno di 
basseto. 

To the pedal organ were added principal and 
posaune. 

The copulae were augmented by swell to choir, 
and choir sub-octave to great. 

New action and soundboards were added, and 
a pneumatic draw-stop with noiseless action ; also 
additional thickness to the swell-box, and a new 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 133 

set of Venetian swell-shutters opening into the 
nave. 

Of these, Dr. Verrinder says that the wonderful 
effect produced of the sound being thrown into the 
nave by their means was kept a profound secret, 
so that it might not be imitated. 

It is believed that this effect was quite unique, 
and did not exist in any other Cathedral church. 

During the progress of the work, H.R.H. the 
Prince Consort took great interest in it, and used 
to come down to the Chapel accompanied by his 
two elder sons, and examine the pipes as they 
were lying about the nave in heaps, ready to be 
placed in the new sounding-boards. 

The Prince examined each set of pipes very 
carefully, and tried some of the smaller ones by 
blowing into them with his mouth, and an eye- 
witness relates how amusing it was to see the two 
young Princes endeavouring to follow the paternal 
example. 

When the bellows were removed for repair, 
amongst the rubbish was found a set of books 
of oblong shape that had been hidden during the 
Commonwealth. They contained services and 
anthems in single parts, printed in lozenge-shaped 
notes, without bars, and in four lines. They were 



134 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

chiefly written by the early fathers of Cathedral 
music, Tomkins, Tallis, and Byrde. 

Some of these were transcribed into score by 
the Doctor and his pupils, and the missing parts 
were supplied by his master hand. One or more 
of these services was afterwards published by the 
well-known antiquarian, Dr. Rimbault. 

When the work of restoration was finished, the 
critics set about finding fault. The Dean said the 
choir reed grated upon and offended his ears, and 
some others complained that the pedal reed was 
too loud. Many were the journeys from London 
to Windsor, and vice versa, between Messrs. Gray 
and Davison's factory and the Chapel organ, under- 
taken by Dr. Elvey, to satisfy himself, and to 
meet the objections of those in authority, and 
others who had no claim or knowledge to offer an 
opinion. 

But constant dropping will wear away a stone, 
and these reiterated remarks so worked upon his 
sensitive disposition that one morning Dr. Elvey 
went quietly up to the organ-loft, took the clarionet 
out of its place in the choir-organ, put the pipes in 
a salmon-basket, and packed off one of the boys 
by train, fish-basket and all, to Messrs. Gray and 
Davison's factory in the Euston Road. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 135 

The firm, being desirous of doing all that could 
be done to make amends, determined on sending 
to Windsor one of their best and most skilful 
finishers. 

The choice fell upon Mr. Mitchell, brother-in- 
law to Mr. Davison. 

This gentleman, on a certain Saturday, went 
down quietly to the royal precincts to judge of the 
effect of the various stops during the Sunday 
services, and to be ready to commence operations 
early on Monday morning. 

Mr. Mitchell and his assistants reached the 
Chapel at 7 a.m. and had scarcely begun to work 
when, at 7.15, Dr. Elvey, clad in his dressing- 
gown, and very little else, rushed from his house 
to the sacred edifice, and shouted with all his 
might and main, as soon as he reached the Chapel 
door: "Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Mitchell, you'll wake 
the Dean!" 

Onward came the sound, and up the organ-loft 
stairs like a cat came Dr. Elvey. When the tumult 
had subsided, and he arrived near the keyboards, 
considerably winded, Mr. Mitchell replied : 

" I have come down on purpose to do what you 
wish with the trombone. You tell me I shall wake 
the Dean ; you say at nine o'clock he will be at his 



136 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

breakfast, and must not be disturbed further, 
that at 10.30 the service begins. When can I do 
the trombone ? " 

The hour was fixed for after morning prayers at 
11.30. 

Meanwhile, having taken breakfast, Mr. Mitchell 
repaired to the North Terrace to enjoy the air and 
view ; and, filling his pipe, began to puff vigorously, 
dreaming, amid the clouds of smoke, that his 
troubles were ended. Vain hope ! A monstrous 
spectre in the shape of a grenadier stood over him, 
with musket lowered and bayonet fixed, ready to 
charge. In loud accents and in threatening atti- 
tude he thus delivered himself : 

" I have been calling to ye ever so long, telling 
ye not to smoke there. If ye don't stop, I'll very 
soon put your pipe out for ye ! " 

" Why may I not smoke here ? " 

" It ain't allowed ! Don't ye see the notice board, 
or can't ye read ? " 

Disconcerted, Mitchell took the next train back 
to London, and reported to his chief that he had 
been to Windsor to cure the trombone. He had 
not been allowed to work at seven because he 
would wake the Dean ; at nine that important 
dignitary could not be disturbed at his breakfast. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 137 

At 10.30 the service would occupy the rest of the 
morning. At 4.30 p.m. was another service. He 
had better send a man whose time was not so 
valuable ; but, before he started, he should like to 
give him a few words of counsel by way of warn- 
ing ; for he was not permitted to walk or smoke on 
the Terrace, and nearly lost his life in the attempt. 
Never more would he set foot in the place, as 
long as he lived, if he could help it. 

When questioned on the subject some years later 
Mitchell declared he still kept to his determination. 

During the cholera visitation of the autumn of 
1853 many cases occurred in Windsor, chiefly in 
the low-lying and badly-built houses by the river- 
side. The terrible disease was a source of great 
apprehension to the Doctor, who used to see from 
his windows the carts calling at the houses for the 
dead bodies. 

Years afterwards he used to relate how, on 
going across to Chapel in the morning, the 
thought would haunt him that perhaps he might 
not live to play the evening service. 

This nervous anxiety at length affecting his 
health, he went to Oxford, where he stayed with 
his brother Stephen, hoping by this means to dis- 
tract his thoughts. 



138 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

The spectre of cholera, however, continually 
haunted him. He had not been at Oxford long 
when a boating party was organized in his 
honour. 

Shortly after a start had been made, one of the 
party entered into conversation with Dr. Elvey, 
commencing with some remarks about the pre- 
vailing malady, and adding the gruesome informa- 
tion that there were a good many cases in Oxford, 
especially by the river-side ! 

About this time, Mr. John Nichols, editor of 
the " Gentleman's Magazine," took one of the 
Canons' houses in the Cloisters, and through him 
and Mrs. Nichols, Dr. Elvey was introduced to 
his second wife, whom he married in 1854. 

They had five children, four of whom are now 
living. 

Dr. Elvey's much-loved brother, Dr. Stephen 
Elvey, was, during this period, very busy with the 
preparation of his Psalter a work that occupied 
him for seven years. Every verse was carefully 
studied, and in all cases of doubt the most learned 
men in Oxford were consulted, and the original 
Hebrew referred to. It was Elvey who introduced 
the imaginary bar, and every Psalter that has 
since appeared is simply a reproduction of his, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 139 

with a few alterations. Rarely, if ever, can they 
be styled improvements. 

Dr. Stephen was a man, not only of splendid 
musical attainments, but a devout and earnest 
Christian, and he devoted all his splendid powers 
to this work. 

His pointing of the Psalms is quite a commen- 
tary on the words, and where the latter is used, as 
it is, even in many small agricultural villages, the 
rough chanting of the Psalms by country lads is 
rendered intelligible. 

One summer during this period Dr. Stephen 
spent his vacation of seven weeks at Windsor, and 
so entranced was he with his work, that the cessa- 
tion from more active duties only meant increased 
time spent on this. 

His pockets were filled with bits of paper, with 
verses from the Psalms written upon them, in 
different forms and with different readings, and 
these he used to discuss with anyone likely to be 
interested in the subject. 

Dr. Verrinder, who was then at Windsor, says : 
" I remember his pulling up suddenly in one of 
the principal streets of the town, and, to the 
astonishment of passers-by, asking me in anything 
but a whisper : 



140 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" ' What is a manpeace ? ' 

" ' I don't know/ 

" ' Neither do I ; but when chanted the error of 
putting the accent on man instead of peace is 
almost universal, and is an instance of the nonsense 
made of passages in Scripture through careless 
reading and indifferent punctuation/ The verse 
runs thus : ' Keep innocency, and take heed unto 
the thing that is right, for that shall bring a man 
peace at the last.' 

" Said he, ' I requested my friend Dr. Morris, 
a Fellow of New College, Oxford, to sing that 
passage to me, and he fell into the trap at once, 
but when he read the verse, he of course gave the 
correct rendering/ 

" Another question he asked me was, * Have 
you studied the characters in Pickwick ? ' 

" I said I had never had the chance of seeing 
the works of Dickens, but I possessed those of 
Scott. 

" ' Oh ! how I wish I could say that ! ' he re- 
plied. * The pleasure of reading Pickwick the first 
time I can scarcely realize. I have gone through 
the book sixteen times, and can find something 
fresh to laugh at every time ! ' " 

" On Sundays, during his stay at the Cloisters, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 141 

the two brothers Elvey played duets as organ 
voluntaries. They usually selected something by 
Handel or Crotch, but I think only because the 
compositions were best adapted for the purpose by 
reason of the massiveness of their construction. 

" I would here take the opportunity of correct- 
ing a mistake which seems to have become rather 
widespread and far-reaching, viz., that the Elveys 
had no sympathy with modern composers, and 
were out of touch with everything later than 
Handel ! Nothing could be further from the 
truth. 

" Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Spohr, Mendels- 
sohn, and Bennett were in daily use, and their 
slow movements turned into voluntaries for the 
organ. 

" I have many times re-arranged Dr. Elvey's 
music cupboard, where his teaching stock was 
kept, and can affirm most positively that, besides 
the ordinary fashionable drawing-room pieces of 
the day, he had, for those pupils with higher views 
and nobler aspirations, more of Beethoven, Mozart, 
and Mendelssohn than of all the rest put together." 

(These remarks of Dr. Verrinder's can be fully 
confirmed by his pupils, who know his ardent 
admiration for Beethoven, in whose sonatas he 



142 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

revelled ; and none who have heard him can 
readily forget his exquisite rendering of these 
works. 

Besides these, he delighted in Haydn, Weber, 
Mendelssohn, and Mozart ; and of later, and per- 
haps lighter composers, he enjoyed and admired 
Schumann, Chopin, Heller, and Rossini ; so that 
to say he was simply a Handelian, and little or 
nothing else, is as absurd as it is incorrect. 1 

But he did not admire that modern music, which, 
forsaking all rules, is for ever striving after an 
effect to which it never attains.) 

" That the brothers Elvey were unsparing in 
their condemnation of any -but the recognized 
method of interpreting Handel's oratorios, I grant, 

1 The following letter, written by Dr. Arnold of Winchester, 
after Sir George's death, is inserted as an illustration of this : 

" I do not consider your late husband was only a Handelian; 
he was a continuation of the school of English musicians who 
have a style of their own, based upon the Church and madrigal 
writers. Where is there any resemblance in ' Wherewithal ' or 
'In that Day' to Handel? 

" His style was purely English, and his counterpoint of a very 
high order. This the middle chorus of 'In that Day' will 
amply prove to any unprejudiced observer. 

" I deeply regret his departure, for, setting aside his musical 
ability, as a man he was just and honest, and could be 
trusted." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 143 

and in this they were not singular, for Mendelssohn 
was equally strong on the point. Dr. Stephen 
Elvey once went to Exeter Hall to hear ' Israel 
in Egypt ' given by the Sacred Harmonic Society, 
and when they reached the ' Hailstone Chorus ' he 
could not contain himself any longer. He had 
hitherto confined himself to quiet grunts of dis- 
approval, but now he launched out into * You may 
call those hailstones, if you like ; but / call them 
peas ! ' 

" As the remembrance of him floats before me, 
I recall with pleasure a lovely Mendelssohnian 
duet of his, part of a selection from an oratorio by 
him once performed by the Windsor and Eton 
Choral Society." 

His brother George fully shared his objections 
to any interference with Handel's works. 

Once, when conducting a rehearsal of the 
" Messiah," one of the lady principals finished her 
solo with an elaborate cadenza. Sir George waited 
until the end, and then said, " What's that f Don't 
you think that if Handel had wanted that he. would 
have written it ? " " Oh ! we always do it in 
London," replied the lady. " Never mind/' he 
answered, " here Handel shall have it in his way, 
so please sing it as it is written." 



144 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Upon the death of Dr. Walmisley, Professor of 
Music to the University of Cambridge, Dr. Elvey 
sent in his name as 'a candidate for the post, but 
he did not succeed in obtaining it, although he was 
very ably supported. 

This, however, never disturbed his pleasant 
intercourse with Sir Sterndale Bennett (his success- 
ful rival), for whom he ever entertained a warm 
affection, and of whose abilities he thought most 
highly. 

It may be interesting to record one of many 
testimonials that Dr. Elvey received at this time, 
bearing witness to his great abilities, which, from 
his modest and retiring disposition, never received 
due recognition. 

" I wish to give the strongest testimony I can 
to the merit of Dr. George J. Elvey, who is, 
I understand, a candidate for the office of Pro- 
fessor of Music in the University of Cambridge. 
It would be difficult, in my opinion, to find a man 
better qualified than he is in every way for this 
most important post, and I should rejoice indeed 
if his claims be recognized as they deserve, and I 
have no hesitation in saying that, whether as a 
contrapuntist, a skilful and correct organist, or a 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 145 

most conscientious and high-principled man, Dr. 

Elvey will yield to few, if any. 

(Signed) " FREDERICK A. GORE OUSELEY, 

M.A., Bart., Precentor of Hereford, 
Professor of Music in the University 
of Oxford." 

Similar testimonials were received from Sir 
John Goss, organist of St. Paul's Cathedral, 
Edward Taylor, Gresham Professor of Music, and 
from many others. 



146 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

DURING these years Dr. Elvey had a large 
circle of private pupils, by all of whom he 
was regarded with an immense amount of esteem 
and respect. 

He was a splendid teacher, sparing no pains 
and leaving no stone unturned to secure the end 
he wished to attain ; and his methods exerted an 
almost magic influence in inspiring his pupils with 
something of the enthusiasm and love for work 
which so characterized the master. 

He would nearly always accompany his pupils 
on the violin, while sometimes the double-bass, or 
the drums, would be pressed into the service to 
give effect to the lesson he was trying to impart. 

Mention has been made of the lessons he 
gave H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge and Prince 
Edward of Saxe-Weimar, and, later on, H.R.H. 
the Prince Consort and T.R.H. the Princesses 
Christian and Beatrice. 

Among his articled pupils are names which have 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 147 

made their mark on the music of the day. Of 
these may be mentioned : 

C. G. Verrinder, Mus. Doc., organist of St. 
Mary's, West Kensington. 

E. H. Thorne, Mus. Bac., organist of St. Anne's, 
Soho. 

Haydn Keeton, Mus. Doc., organist of Peter- 
borough Cathedral. 

C. Huntley, Mus. Doc., organist, Newcastle-on- 
Tyne. 

J. S. Liddle, Mus. Bac., organist of Newbury. 

Chas. Hancock, Mus. Bac., organist of St. 
Martin's, Leicester. 

The list of his private pupils is a very long one. 
It included the Duchess of MalakofF, the Hon. 
Victoria Grosvenor, the Hon. E. M. Russell, Miss 
Phipps, Miss Van de Weyer, the Misses Anson, 
Miss Biddulph, the Misses Vansittart; also the 
Duke of Newcastle, Lord Edward Clinton, Sir 
Stevenson Blackwood, Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet, 
Fellow of St. John's College, Oxford, Mr. Edward 
Hamilton. Professor Hubert Parry, Mus. Doc., 
the eminent musician and author, who has since 
become so famous, owes his early education in 
music to Sir George Elvey. When a boy at Eton 
he was constantly in the organ-loft on Sundays 



148 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

and his early impressions have left their mark upon 
his recent works. 

The exercise for Dr. Hubert Parry's Mus. Bac. 
degree and other works were examined and cor- 
rected by his old master. 

When Dr. Bridge, organist of Westminster 
Abbey and Gresham Professor, was organist of 
Holy Trinity, Windsor, he became a pupil of 
Dr. Elvey's, whose style has not been without 
its effect on his music, more especially in his larger 
compositions, and those written for his Mus. Bac. 
and Mus. Doc. degrees. 

" In my Eton days, from 1840 to 1849," writes 
Mr. A. D. Coleridge, " St. George's Chapel was 
a never-failing attraction to any boy with musical 
instincts. I thought at that time, and I believe 
now, that no choral body in England retained, 
year after year, so uniform a level of excellence 
as that over which Sir George presided. 

"He had difficulties to contend with from which 
no organist is exempt. For the first few years of 
his office his merits had been acknowledged by 
William IV. and his Queen, who constantly at- 
tended the Chapel services ; the young organist 
basked in the sunshine of royal approbation. 

" The melodious and well-known anthem, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 149 

'Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way/ 
was written especially for the confirmation of the 
Duke, then Prince George of Cambridge. A 
royal request that Elvey would write music for 
the occasion was obviously a compliment, and a 
cheering recognition of services already felt and 
valued in high quarters. 

" I spoke of the difficulties from which no or- 
ganist in those days was exempt ; for super- 
annuated tenors and basses, whose vested privi- 
leges were not to be interfered with, existed at 
St. George's Chapel as well as elsewhere. 

" But the vocal imperfections of these veterans 
were so skilfully veiled and kept in the back- 
ground, that, during the many years of my atten- 
dance, I never heard a chant, service, or anthem 
which were perceptibly marred by coarse or in- 
ferior singing. 

" The boys were invariably in a high state of 
training and discipline. Mr. French, then school- 
master, was a cultivated man, who heartily co- 
operated with the young organist, zealous beyond 
his fellows, and whose pride in his choir was un- 
abated from the first years of his appointment to 
the last day when he resigned his post. 



150 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" J. C. Patteson, the Martyr-Bishop of Mela- 
nesia, was as fond of St. George's Chapel as I 
was. 

" On Sunday afternoons, in the summer half, 
when the Chapel was crowded, the upper stalls 
filled by grandees, and the lower seats tenanted 
by the 'poor Knights of Windsor/ it was our con- 
stant privilege to be allowed seats in the organ- 
loft. 

" It was a treat to watch, as well as to listen 
to Sir George's masterly accompaniment, espe- 
cially in the Handelian anthems, which I maintain 
were given with greater finish and brilliancy at 
St. George's Chapel than in any other place of 
worship in England. 

" The Chandos and Coronation anthems, the 
Funeral anthem written in honour of Queen 
Caroline, once heard in St. George's Chapel when 
Elvey and his choir were at their best, can never 
be forgotten by those who heard them. 

" Bishop Thirl wall was one of Elvey's great 
admirers, and, at a later date, Canon Pearson. 
* # # # * 

" Elvey's loyalty and devotion to his duties at 
St. George's Chapel made a lasting impression on 
his many friends at Windsor and Eton. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 151 

"We old Etonians date our love of sacred 
music from the time when we first heard it inter- 
preted by him." 

# # * # * 

The Eton boys were frequent visitors to Dr. 
Elvey's organ-loft; indeed, they used to flock 
round him to such an extent that he used to say 
they did not even leave him elbow-room to 
play. 

To many of them he gave lessons ; in fact, to 
quote from a well-known musical authority : 

" Most of the nobility who were educated at 
Eton, and many eminent statesmen of this and 
past times, were instructed by Sir George Elvey." 

From this connection with Eton he learnt much 
of what went on in the College in the old days, 
and he used to tell some amusing tales concerning 
Dr. Keate, the then Head Master. 

At that time, from want of efficient control and 
systematic management, the College was at a very 
low ebb, and the houses were in many cases almost 
empty. 

This was rather a sore subject with the teaching 
fraternity, and one day, during some discussion 
on the subject, one master announced, with no 
attempt to conceal the pride he felt at his ability 



152 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

to deliver so startling a proclamation, " I have ten 
boys returning ! " 

But the fall of his pride was not far distant. 
When school reopened only one pupil appeared. 

The following Sunday old Dr. Keate preached 
a sermon on the ten lepers, and during his dis- 
course he made a pause, and, looking over at the 
master, who occupied a front seat, he repeated, 
very emphatically, fixing the unfortunate man 
with his eagle eye, " But where are the nine ? " 
This he did two or three times, to the no small 
discomfort of the boastful tutor. 

Here is another funny tale of Eton concerning 
the boys. They had acquired a habit, which 
seemed to afford them unlimited pleasure, of pull- 
ing Dr. Keate's bell as often as the vigilance of 
their superiors admitted. Several times the irate 
pedagogue ran out to catch them, and the boys 
determining to take advantage of this, one evening 
placed a bag of soot on the doorstep, and rang 
the bell as before. 

Dr. Keate rushed out, and, embracing the soft, 
black mass, exclaimed, in triumphant accents, 
" Ah ! I've caught you at last ! " 

Dr. Elvey was always very fond of boys, and 
exercised quite a fatherly care over his pupils and 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 153 

choristers. He always said that he had been a 
chorister himself, and he sympathized greatly with 
boys, as he knew what they frequently had to put 
up with ; and, although a firm disciplinarian, and 
particular that their work should be well done, he 
was yet an extremely kind friend, and, when they 
left, was always ready to lend a helping hand to 
advance their future prospects. 

Mr. George Pearson, organist of Redhill, in 
writing says : 

" As a master he was very strict with us as 
boys, never allowing a mistake in the music, or 
any misbehaviour to pass unpunished. I remem- 
ber on one occasion it was on the 4th of June, the 
great aquatic festival at Eton. I suppose our 
heads were full of what was to take place in the 
evening, and something went wrong in the service. 
What it was I do not now remember, but I do 
remember most vividly his, to us, terrible coun- 
tenance as we came out of the choir. We knew 
what it meant ; he would do his duty, if we did 
not ; with the result that, I fear, we took the first 
part of our pleasure rather sadly. 

" But, on the other hand, when we did well, 
many a sixpence found its way out of his pocket 
into ours, and in many ways he would try and 



154 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

interest us, and so help to lessen the drudgery of 
the usual routine. He made us fear him, but we 
also loved him very dearly. During the time I 
was in the choir we made him a present of a ring, 
and great was our anxiety to know if it would be 
accepted. When he came up the aisle, before 
service, with the ring on his finger, our delight 
knew no bounds. I feel sure that if any boy from 
another choir should venture to suggest that there 
was a kinder man or a more able musician living, 
we were, one and all, ready to back our sentiments 
in a manner peculiar, but most convincing, amongst 
boys. 

"When I came to be under him as a pupil, it 
was the same principle in his actipns thorough- 
ness and strictness, combined with kindness and 
encouragement. 

" When his pupils had finished their course of 
instruction, and were started in life, a letter was 
sent to, and received from him, once during the 
week. If, from any cause, it was delayed, the 
question in his next was always, ' How are you 
getting on ? Is everything going right ? ' 

" For my own part, at this period of my life, I 
can speak of him with peculiar affection. I was 
living with an uncle, who just at this time died ; 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 155 

consequently I was being launched upon the world 
almost like a ship without a rudder. The Doctor 
took me by the hand, and from that time to the 
end he has been to me as a father." 

* * * # # 

Dr. Elvey was ever ready to lend a helping 
hand to anybody in need. On several occasions 
he took articled pupils without the slightest re- 
muneration, and gave them the excellent musical 
education which enables them now to hold first- 
rate posts. To more than one Elvey not only 
gave an education, but he and Mrs. Elvey col- 
lected the funds to maintain them during the time 
of training. 

The sympathy he felt for the boys evinced 
itself in ways not always to be expected. 

For instance, some thirty years ago it was not 
an uncommon thing for him to have to chastise 
one or other of his choristers for carelessness and 
faults during Divine service, but the caning never 
troubled a boy much ; for he knew that, whilst the 
ordeal itself was but slight, he was pretty sure to 
be taken into Dr. Elvey's dining-room afterwards 
to have a glass of wine. For the master appeared 
to have a dread lest his pupil should resent his 
punishment. 



156 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

In this connection a tradition maybe mentioned 
that was prevalent amongst his boys, although its 
accuracy cannot be vouched for. It was to the 
effect that, having occasion to administer corporal 
punishment to a boy one winter's evening in the 
room of his house used for the boys' practice, the 
solitary light being from a candle held by one of 
his articled pupils, the boy blew this out, upon 
which Dr. Elvey was so alarmed that he rushed 
from the room. 

A letter from an "old boy " speaks of Dr. Elvey's 
extreme kindness to him during the years he was 
in the choir, and dwells especially on the care 
taken of himself and his fellow-choristers when 
they travelled with the Doctor to sing at Exeter 
Hall, or to Bristol, where they annually took part 
in the concerts of the Madrigal Society. 

It also relates how, when he left the choir, Dr. 
Elvey obtained a good appointment for him through 
a friend, and also kept up a correspondence with 
him for many years. 

Such was the affection and respect he enter- 
tained for his old master, that he came from 
Torquay to attend the funeral. 

Another, who was also a chorister at St. 
George's, writes as follows : 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 157 

" The Doctor's kindliness of heart towards 
those who had been under him as choristers was 
illustrated by what he did on my behalf as recently 
as 1889. For many years he had been a member 
of the committee for the society known as the 
' Choir Benevolent Fund/ but for some little 
time, owing to his advanced age, he had not 
attended the meetings. At the end of 1888 the 
secretary, one of the few paid officers of the 
society, announced his intention of resigning, and 
I was invited by some of the members to become 
a candidate for the post. 

" There were others, however, who nominated a 
rival, and the election was to take place at the 
general meeting of the members on February 7th, 
1889. It was nearly twenty-three years since I 
left St. George's, and Sir George Elvey was just 
seventy-three years old, but he nevertheless came 
to London on a cold winter's day to address the 
members on my behalf, and the voting resulted in 
my election. 

" During the latter part of my time at Windsor, 
I was the fastest runner in the school, and was 
rather noted for the long strides I took. 

" For about a quarter of an hour between dinner 
and afternoon school, we played at various games 



158 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

on fine days in the Castle yard, and sometimes 
Dr. Elvey would stand out there watching us, 
and talking with Mr. Bransom, our master. On 
one occasion, when he saw me running, he called 
out quoting from the words of Handel's ' Acis 
and Galatea * ' See ! what ample strides he 
takes/ and the boys, making a parody, continued 
the quotation with, ' The Round Tower nods, the 
Castle shakes.' " 

Another pupil writes : " I greatly esteemed 
him, and shall ever feel deeply indebted to him 
for all his kindness to me. He was ever genial 
and kind, and spared no pains or trouble in help- 
ing us forward. I shall never forget his harmony 
lessons, which were often given when out walking 
with me, and musical illustrations were frequently 
written on a white gate no paper being at hand. 

" I think the gates about Windsor Forest were 
studded with these little illustrations. 

" It was novel, and certainly left its impression 
on our minds." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 159 



CHAPTER XIX. 

IT was a rule of Dr. Elvey's that the reeds of 
the organ should be tuned by his pupils every 
Saturday, and for this purpose a box of tools was 
kept in the organ-loft. 

He was always very nervous of anything 
happening to the organ on these occasions, and 
the following catechism would generally take 
place : 

" Have you put the organ in good order, ready 
for to-morrow ? 

" Did you use the shade ? 

" I hope you have not left any of the swell- 
shutters out, or the tuning-flaps down ! 

" Did Davenport see that all was right after- 
wards, and that you did not set the organ on 
fire? 

" I almost fancy I can see a light through the 
windows now." 

Having had his fears calmed, and been assured 
that all had been left perfectly safe, and the books 



160 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

turned at the proper places ready for his use on 
the morrow, he would take his dinner in comfort, 
and then smoke the cheroot of peace. Yet, in 
the cool of evening, he frequently took the keys, 
and made his way to the Chapel to take a last 
fond look into the cold and dark building, in order 
to satisfy himself that all was right. 

On Sunday, if a pedal note stuck down, on to 
the bellows one of the pupils had to go, in spite of 
best clothes, on his back, or on hands and knees, 
over dust and candle-grease the accumulation of 
a g es to splice a broken tracker, or pull down a 
pallet which had got fixed inside the wind-chest. 

%? ^ ^ T? ifc 

The following rather amusing account is given 
by Dr. Verrinder : 

" At a very early period of life Dr. Elvey 
acquired the habit of taking snuff, and when deep 
in thought would dispose of pinch after pinch. 

" Mrs. Elvey and many friends did their best 
to break him of this, but to no purpose. At last, 
they extracted from him promises, first, that he 
would restrict himself to a small quantity per diem, 
and secondly, that he would not carry a snuff-box. 

" This was rather a trial to him, and oftentimes 
he would say to Thorne or myself during chapel- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 161 

time, ' I am dying for a pinch of snuff; I wish you 
would run down to Snook's, the tobacconist in 
Thames Street, and get me a half-ounce of brown 
rappee ! ' 

" After taking his fill he would quietly pocket 
snuff, paper, and all, and beam with content- 
ment as long as it lasted. Then one of the boys 
had to make another pilgrimage to Snook's, 
always in mortal dread that Mrs. Elvey should 
look from the window and find him out ! " 

Many people, noticing Dr. Elvey's habit of 
having a twist of paper to hold his snuff, and 
thinking that they were anticipating his wishes, 
kindly gave him presents of various more or less 
handsome snuff-boxes. 

Among these was a splendid silver box from 
the Provost and Fellows of Eton College, for 
permitting his pupil, now Dr. Verrinder, to occupy 
their organist's place for three months. 

On its arrival he called Verrinder into the 
drawing-room, and after showing him the beauti- 
fully-engraved box, he remarked, with a merry 
twinkle in his eye, as he replaced it in its case, 
"I think next time they must give you a snuff- 
box!" 

Although, in addition to this, he possessed 

M 



162 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

several other silver boxes, he did not care to use 
them, as he always made endeavours to check the 
habit of snuff-taking, and for this reason would 
not permit himself to carry a box in his pocket. 
Having consideration, however, for the feelings of 
others, he did not like to appear ungrateful, and 
would always send home for one of the boxes 
when the donor was expected to visit the organ- 
loft. The snuff was emptied into it, for he would 
say, " It won't do for him to see me using the 
paper!" 

Yet, no sooner had the giver departed, than the 
snuff was duly returned to the paper, and the box 
to its companions. 

He would never allow himself to procure more 
than half an ounce at a time. The boys' journeys 
to the shop being so frequent, they found it 
advisable to purchase two separate packets, and 
so keep one in stock until it was required. 

He was averse to taking the snuff home with 
him, and usually kept it in the organ-loft, appa- 
rently hoping to get through each evening without 
its assistance. He, however, could seldom accom- 
plish this, and Mr. Hancock, one of his pupils, 
says, " He usually asked me during the evening 
to fetch his packet. This I always did in the 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 163 

dark, for he would on no account run the risk of 
having a match struck in the Chapel. Sometimes 
he would accompany me as far as the outer door 
of the building, and keep guard there whilst I 
went upstairs. On one or two occasions only did 
he himself venture so far as the organ-loft ; he 
would then leave me on guard below. Once I 
moved from my post, and when he descended and 
dimly saw a figure standing in the aisle awaiting 
him, he fairly shouted with fright ! " Thus will 
snuff and a guilty conscience make cowards of us 
all. 

After Sir George left Windsor he gave up the 
habit of taking snuff, and in his peaceful retire- 
ment seemed no longer to care or wish for this 
sedative, yet he never lost his pleasure in smoking, 
and to the last keenly enjoyed his pipe or cigar, 
the more when he had a friend with him to chat 
over old times. Merrily would they laugh to- 
gether as he related some of the interesting re- 
miniscences of his long cathedral career. 

He has told how, on one occasion, when the 
service had been changed to please some visitors, 
the organ-blower, much offended, said, " You can 
play Rogers in D if you like, but I shall blow 
Attwood in C." 



164 L!FE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

And of another, who, having blown the organ 
for a lay-clerk's trial, applied to the successful 
candidate for a fee. The gentleman, much sur- 
prised, said, " I don't remember you ; what did you 
do for me ? " The man replied, " Please, sir, I 
blew you in. " 

Speaking of trials, years ago, before pedal- 
organs were completed, an organ-builder, some- 
what in advance of the day, had just added some 
large pedal-pipes to an instrument in the church 
he attended. For this he was thought so clever 
that he was asked to adjudicate at the trial for a 
new organist. As one after another of the candi- 
dates played, the builder seemed dissatisfied, for 
they did not produce what he considered to be 
due effect, and he made audible remarks upon 
their performances. 

At last, however, one candidate did make the 
pipes speak occasionally, and another young man, 
seeing the pleasure this gave to the all-important 
judge, stole out of the church, procured some 
leaden weights, and carefully secreted them until 
his time for trial came. Then he placed one of 
them on a bass note, and extemporized to this 
pedale. 

When he wished to modulate, he deftly pushed 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 165 

the leaden weight on to whichever note was 
required. 

Needless to say, his effort received warm ap- 
probation, and he got appointed to the post. 

On one occasion some gentlemen of the choir 
were spending a musical evening together at the 
house of an admirer, who, although not a musical 
man, was delighted to show hospitality to such 
singers of distinction. After supper someone 
suggested that they should have a part-song 
entitled, " Would you know my Celia's charms ? " 
The men did their part so admirably, suiting the 
action to the word, that mine host grew alarmed, 
and, wishing to pacify the apparently excited 
singers, rose from his seat, walked round the 
table, and, patting one of them on the back, said, 
in most soothing tones, " Come, gentlemen, we've 
had suck a pleasant evening together ; don't let us 
end with a quarrel. " 



166 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XX. 

IN March of 1856 a festival service was held 
in the Wolsey Chapel at Windsor, to cele- 
brate the conclusion of the Crimean War, and a 
grand performance of the " Creation " was given, 
under Dr. Elvey's direction. 

Later in the year he went down to Tenbury to 
assist at the opening of the church erected there 
by Sir Frederick Ouseley. 

The Doctor presided at the organ, which he 
had planned. It was in a very unfinished state, 
but he was said to have " done wonders " with it, 
and to have succeeded in demonstrating that the 
church possessed great acoustic properties. 

One of his own anthems, " Almighty and ever- 
lasting God," specially composed for the occasion, 
formed part of the service. 

Allusion has been made to the unfinished state 
of the organ, and the same remark might be 
applied to the approaches. Owing to the drag- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 167 

ging of the materials for the building up a steep 
hill, and the constant passage of heavily-laden 
waggons, this had been reduced to such a deplo- 
rable state, that on the day appointed for the con- 
secration, after a night's heavy rain, it was some 
inches deep in mud. Dr. Elvey used to give a 
lively and graphic description of the dismay of the 
numerous clergy, who toiled up the hill in proces- 
sion, or, as he described it, pranced along, en- 
deavouring by holding up their surplices to guard 
them from contact with the black mud. 

Afterwards all the guests (of whom there were 
an immense number) partook of luncheon "in 
common," and, said Dr. Elvey, with one of his 
merry smiles, when alluding to the occasion, " It 
was very common ! " 

The following summer was a somewhat eventful 
one for him. 

In May, his anthem, "In that Day/' was per- 
formed at Exeter Hall by the Sacred Harmonic 
Society, Dr. Elvey himself conducting. 

It may be remembered that this anthem was 
originally composed for the "Festival of the 
Ancients "in 1850. It was dedicated by special 
permission to H.R.H. Prince Albert; and a few 
weeks before the performance at Exeter Hall it 



168 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

was given at Windsor Castle before Her Majesty 
under Dr. Elvey's direction. 

At Exeter Hall it was preceded by a splendid 
rendering of" The Creation." Upon the anthem 
the " Times " made the following remarks : 

" Mr. Surman gave an interesting performance 
last night, consisting of Haydn's oratorio, 'The 
Creation/ and a new anthem by Dr. Elvey, 
organist of the Chapel Royal, Windsor. 

" An original work by an English composer 
would be sufficiently a matter of interest were it 
even in a less ambitious school than that to which 
Dr. Elvey has, in the present instance, directed 
his attention. The anthem, 'In that Day shall 
this song be sung/ is modelled in the style of our 
great Cathedral masters ; ... it is written with 
the correctness and purity that spring from a 
thorough and well-grounded musical education. 

"It opens with a short recitative in B flat, which 
introduces a chorus in the same key, ' Open the 
gates/ in the fugued style. 

" A solo for tenor with choral responses and 
coda in F, ' Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace/ 
follows. 

"A short chorus in full harmony, in B flat, 
1 Trust ye in the Lord/ leads to a vigorous choral 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 169 

fugue in the same key, ' For in the Lord Jehovah/ 
remarkable for good counterpoint and plain 
melody, and the clever pedal-point on the domi- 
nant. The following chorale in G minor, ' Be 
gracious unto us/ contrasts well with what pre- 
cedes and comes after it, while its grave tone is in 
strict keeping with the words. 

" A solo for an alto voice, with the chorus, 
' The Lord is exalted,' conducts to the final fugue 
in E flat, ' Amen/ which presents a well-marked 
theme, dexterously elaborated." 

This anthem, it may be mentioned here, to- 
gether with " I beheld, and lo ! a great multitude/' 
were given to Surman, and though they have 
since been bought and sold at publishers' sales 
for considerable sums, Dr. Elvey never received 
anything for them. 

About a month after this performance the old 
choristers of St. George's held a festive gather- 
ing, which appears to have been quite a red-letter 
day. 

It is graphically described as follows : " The 
old choristers held their ' gathering ' yesterday 
week at Windsor, and from all accounts appear to 
have enjoyed a few hours' most agreeable respite 
from the duties of everyday life. 



170 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" The day's proceedings commenced with the 
morning service at St. George's Chapel, after 
which the organ was tried, and the merits 
of the recent additions discussed. Then, having 
seen the state apartments, the whole party went to 
Old Windsor in a pleasure-barge. This was a pile 
which, from being honestly and indisputably the 
antithesis of your modern new-fangled ' outrigger ' 
style of craft, both in build and speed, might 
very well have been the identical vessel that used 
to convey the Saxon kings to the palace at 
Windles-ofra, the ancient name of Old Windsor. 
The bargemen (as an architect would say) were 
certainly ' later insertions,' though even they were 
not in the ' decorated style/ 

" In rather more than two hours the distance 
achieved was about two miles the ' old boys ' 
landed at Old Windles-ofra, where, through the 
courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. Wrench, at the kind in- 
tercession of Dr. Elvey, an excellent cold collation 
had been laid out in their grounds by * Mine host 
of the White Hart hostelrie,' on a lawn sloping 
down to the river, and shaded by a row of vene- 
rable and gigantic trees. 

" Dinner being concluded, several toasts were 
proposed, and many glees sung, and the proceed- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 171 

ings of the day were being carried on with great 
spirit, when it was announced that, in order to 
catch the last London train, the party must take 
to the barge immediately. 

" This was soon accomplished, and the ' old 
choristers' returned to New Windsor as quietly 
as people usually do after dinner. Not many hats 
were lost, and no lives. 

" Seriously, those present experienced such 
genuine pleasure from meeting their old school com- 
panions to say nothing of the beautiful prospects 
and excellent cheer enjoyed during the day that 
it was proposed that the mere ' gathering ' should 
at once be formed into a ' society,' so that such 
an annual meeting might in future be relied upon 
by its metropolitan and provincial members, and 
looked forward to as one of the pleasant recrea- 
tions to be participated in during the summer 
holidays." 

On July 2 ist, a choral festival in aid of the 
Choir Benevolent Fund was held in St. George's. 

The Chapel was crowded with lovers of Cathe- 
dral music, and universal satisfaction reigned at 
the completeness of the performance. 

Dr. Elvey's time had been thus fully occupied, 
but during these summer months he yet found 



172 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

leisure to add another to his already long list of 
compositions. 

This was an anthem, "Sing, O Heavens!'* 
written for the Festival of the Three Choirs, which 
this year was held at Worcester. 

It was a somewhat lengthy work, as the per- 
formance of it occupied fully twenty-five minutes. 

It consists of six movements, and is scored for 
a full orchestra. 

The anthem seemed to give great satisfaction, 
for it was much admired, and pronounced by good 
judges to be one of his ablest compositions. 

A critic at the time said : 

" The choruses are grand, the subjects of the 
fugues most impressive, and worked out with 
consummate skill." Warm praise indeed ! 

Throughout these years Dr. Elvey worked 
hard at composition, and it was at this period that 
he produced many, if not most, of his finest works. 

In 1858 he was occupied in writing his anthem, 
" This is the Day which the Lord hath made," 
scored for a full band. 

It was composed especially for, and used on, 
the day of thanksgiving appointed after the sup- 
pression of the Indian Mutiny, at a special service 
in St. George's Chapel (May ist, 1859). 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 173 

Dr. Elvey selected the words of the opening 
chorus from averse in the Psalms beginning with, 
"This is the Day which the Lord hath made," 
set to bold and broad phrases ; and then a fugue 
to the words, " We will rejoice and be glad in it." 
A short larghetto " A sound of battle " intro- 
duced later on the answering chorus, "But the 
Lord hath delivered us/' 

Then comes an elaborate fugue to the words, 
"Not unto us, O Lord!" wrought out in Sir 
George's musicianly manner. Perhaps the tenor 
solo, " O that men would praise the Lord ! " might 
be considered the gem of the anthem, a graceful 
and taking melody, written with true devotional 
feeling and pathos. 

A semi-chorus, " He maketh peace," is full of 
repose and beauty. 

A return to the first subject and opening sen- 
tences brings this interesting work to a close ; it 
contains some of Sir George Elvey's characteristic 
thoughts, and is the production of a thorough 
musician and ripe scholar. 

A few years before, Elvey composed a morning 
and evening Cathedral service in F, of which Dr. 
Crotch, to whom it was dedicated, said that he 
only wished he could show his approbation in a 



174 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

more serviceable way than by consenting to have 
his name printed on the title-page. 

Throughout his life Sir George was always a 
great admirer of the then Oxford professor, whom 
he had known well as a young man in the cathe- 
dral city, and it was a source of deep regret to 
him that the works of one of the most gifted men 
that England has ever produced should be left 
unpublished and unknown. 

In later years he made great efforts to secure 
the publication of one of these, an oratorio, " The 
Captivity of Judah," and induced the Sacred 
Harmonic Society to give a performance of 
another entitled " Palestine " at Exeter Hall. He 
took immense trouble to collect subscriptions to 
bring out the former of these fine works, and 
wrote innumerable letters on the subject. Un- 
fortunately, however, he did not succeed in getting 
the necessary guarantee, although the idea was 
warmly supported by Sir Sterndale Bennett, Sir 
Michael Costa, Sir Herbert Oakeley, Sir John 
Goss, Sir Robert Stewart, Dr. Corfe, and Sir 
Frederick Ouseley, the latter of whom wrote thus : 

" The more I look into the score of ' The Cap- 
tivity/ the more I like it." 

It was the custom for many years for all the 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 175 

Windsor lay-clerks to be engaged to sing at the 
annual festival of the charity children at St. Paul's 
Cathedral. 

There were very few festivals held, either in 
London or in the country, at which Dr. Elvey and 
some members, at least, of his choir, were not 
present. 

At these he frequently acted as conductor, more 
especially when one of his own greater works was 
performed. 

At the invitation of Sir John Goss, he took the 
baton at the meetings held in St. Paul's Cathe- 
dral on behalf of the Sons of the Clergy Corpora- 
tion, which he conducted until 1867, when he 
resigned. 

On one occasion, when the men were singing in 
London, the boys, and three lay-clerks who had 
not been engaged, sang the service in the Chapel 
instead of saying it, as had generally been done on 
these occasions. Dr. Elvey did not like such a 
miserably balanced choir, and it was whispered 
among the boys after service that there would be 
no singing in the afternoon, and that they might 
even have a holiday from service altogether ; the 
few lay-clerks being considered sufficient to say 
the responses and Psalms. 



176 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Visions of some pleasant excursion to Virginia 
Water, or elsewhere, floated before their eyes, but 
they nevertheless went into school as usual. 
Presently, however, Canon Anson arrived and 
said it had been decided to have no singing at 
the afternoon service; and that he wished the 
boys to have an excursion up the river at his 
expense, and Dr. Elvey had volunteered with the 
master, Mr. Bransom, to take charge of them. 

The affair is thus described by one who was 
then a chorister : 

" After an early dinner we started ; one boat 
was rowed by Dr. Elvey and his pupil, Fred Bur- 
giss, the other by Mr. Bransom and two of the 
biggest boys. 

" I (i.e. Frost, the author of the account) was 
among the boys consigned to the care of Dr. 
Elvey. Away we went up the river, enjoying to 
the full that glorious June afternoon. I fear the 
British public was greatly deceived as to our 
whereabouts, for it was Ascot Cup day, and good 
Canon Anson was sadly afraid that those who 
attended the afternoon service would imagine that, 
as there was no singing, the choir must have gone 
to the races. 

" He therefore had a notice placed at the Chapel 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 177 

doors, which said : " No choral service : choir at 
St. Paul's.' 

"The Doctor brought Mendelssohn's open-air 
part-music with him, and this we sang at intervals 
as we returned home under a bright evening sky. 

" At times we had quite an audience following 
us along the bank, and had more than once to 
refuse their invitations to disembark and give 
them an impromptu concert. 



N 



178 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXI. 

IN October, 1860, Dr. Elvey received a terrible 
blow in the death of Dr. Stephen Elvey, his 
elder brother. The intense devotion of these two 
to one another is almost impossible to describe. 
They had so many grounds of union ; first and 
foremost, their deep love for the Saviour, and 
secondly, their musical tastes and profession, being 
both employed in the same branch of art. 

Dr. Stephen was nearly eleven years George's 
senior ; the younger brother looked up to the elder 
with a most intense reverence and affection. Even 
to the close of his life he never mentioned his 
name without deep pathos in his voice. Dr. 
Stephen's death was sudden and tragic. 

His Sundays at Oxford were a perpetual whirl ; 
for not only was he organist of New College, but 
choragus of the University, and organist of St. 
Mary's and St. John's. 

In consequence of his lameness and his holding 
so many appointments, he was obliged to be con- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 179 

veyed from pillar to post by the University " gon- 
dola," a bath-chair. In hurrying off from one 
service to another one Sunday, the attendant took 
too close a turn round a corner, and ran against a 
Church dignitary. To remove the vehicle from off 
his feet, he instinctively dashed out both hands, 
throwing its occupant into the road. 

Dr. Stephen was a heavy man ; the shock proved 
too much for him, and he went home to die. 

A short account of one who exercised such an 
influence over Dr. Elvey, and to whom, to a great 
extent, he owed both his musical education and the 
moulding of his musical opinions, may not be out 
of place here. 

Stephen Elvey, born, reared, and to the close of 
his life living in a Cathedral city, was strongly 
imbued with the influences of the English Cathedral 
system. 

At the age of seven years he became a chorister 
in Canterbury Cathedral, and ever since then he 
exercised the profession of Church music, imbued 
with the true principles of the English choral 
service, and devoting his best energies throughout 
his entire life to this ministry and vocation in the 
Church, for such we must consider the active 
profession of the ecclesiastical musician. 



i8o LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

At Canterbury he was a pupil of Mr. Jones, and 
in 1831 he succeeded at Oxford another young 
man of promise, Alfred Bennett, who was crushed 
to death by the overturning of a coach returning 
from the Worcester Festival. Dr. Elvey had 
previously lost his right leg by an accidental shot. 
With a wooden substitute he was enabled to 
manage the swell, having still the left at liberty for 
the pedal notes. 

Notwithstanding this disadvantage, few per- 
formers could give greater effect to Handel's 
choruses than the organist of New College, aided 
by a fine instrument in Wykeham's lofty and 
beautiful chapel. 

In 1856 he was appointed choragus in the 
University of Oxford. 

He was well known in his profession as a pro- 
found and talented musician, thoroughly versed in 
the best school of English music. 

As an organist he was not only one of those who 
" found out musical tunes," but in his intelligent 
and devout understanding of the song of praise 
he showed that he exercised himself day and night 
in the law of the Lord, and that the Lord's " testi- 
monies were his delight and his counsellors." 

His proficiency and taste will long be remem- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 181 

bered, especially by the frequenters of New College 
Chapel, with which his name was for so many 
years associated. 

In his later years he devoted a great portion of 
his time and attention to the correct chanting of 
the Psalms, and in 1856 he published a Psalter 
pointed upon the soundest and most approved 
principles. This work was the result of a reve- 
rent and thoughtful study of the language and 
meaning of the Psalms, combined with a very 
accurate adaptation of the words to the musical 
divisions. 

This Psalter is deservedly in very high repute 
as the most careful and elaborate work of the kind, 
and it has exercised much influence in Cathedral 
and other choirs, by promoting a more exact and 
intelligent method of chanting. After his death it 
became the property of his brother George. 

Dr. Elvey's knowledge of the Scriptures, espe- 
cially the words of the Psalms, was remarkable, 
and his application of them, to the last, instructive 
and consoling. 

His private life was distinguished for kindness 
and self-sacrificing exertions for others. 

He was a true type of what the English Cathe- 
dral training can produce and foster ; it not only 



182 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

afforded his vocation in life, but he had imbibed 
that tone and spirit which it should be the effect of 
such influences to create, that devotional apprecia- 
tion of the Church's services, and that deep re- 
ligious feeling which he possessed. 

Dr. Stephen Elvey,as those who were acquainted 
with his inward life knew well, was a man not only 
of great kindliness and real affectionateness of 
heart, but of sincere humble piety. 

The history of such a man possesses, in some 
measure, an interest for the musical world at large, 
for it serves to illustrate that kind of professional 
life and devotional spirit which the Church of 
England choral system has produced and should 
ever foster. 

In December, 1861, occurred that which was a 
grief and a calamity to the nation at large the 
death of the beloved Prince Consort. This blow, 
coming so soon after the death of his brother, was 
very deeply felt by Dr. Elvey, who grieved much 
for the loss of the Prince, ever his kind friend and 
patron. His heart bled sorely for his beloved 
Queen, into whose grief he could enter, as can 
only those who have passed through the fiery trial 
themselves. 

It had ever been a great delight to him to serve 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 183 

the Prince, who in return had always shown a 
ready appreciation of his talents and abilities. 

At the funeral, on December 23rd, in St. George's 
Chapel, Dr. Elvey played the organ during the 
mournful service. 

As the procession advanced, the commencement 
of the Burial Service, " I am the Resurrection and 
the Life, saith the Lord," was sung by the full 
choir to Dr. Croft's music. At the nave was 
commenced the passage, " I know that my Re- 
deemer liveth," still sung to Craft's melancholy, 
dirge-like music, so touching, so inexpressibly 
mournful in its long, soft cadences. 

At the end of the lesson the choir sang the 
German chorale, " I shall not in the grave remain." 

The words of the latter were great favourites of 
the Prince, and the music for this, as well as for 
another chorale which followed at a later portion 
of the service, was composed by Dr. Elvey specially 
for the occasion. 

It is impossible to imagine anything more ex- 
quisitely touching than the cadence to the lines : 

" So fall asleep in slumber deep, 
Slumber that knows no ending." 

This was chanted by the choir in whispered 



184 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

tones, that seemed to moan through the building 
with a plaintive solemnity as deep in its sorrow as 
the notes of the " Dead March." 

A rough translation from the German gives the 
words of this mournful hymn as follows : 

" I shall not in the grave remain, 
Since Thou death's bonds hast sever'd ; 
By hope with Thee to rise again, 
From fear of death deliver'd. 
I'll come to Thee, where'er Thou art, 
Live with Thee, from Thee never part ; 
Therefore to die is rapture. 
And so to Jesus Christ I'll go, 
My longing arms extending ; 
So fall asleep in slumber deep, 
Slumber that knows no ending, 
Till Jesus Christ, God's only Son, 
Opens the gates of bliss, leads on 
To Heaven, to life eternal." 

* * * * 

Again the Dean, the Hon. and Rev. Gerald 
Wellesley, resumed the service in a strained and 
broken voice for all in the Chapel made no 
attempt to conceal their emotion with the sublime 
passage, " Man that is born of woman hath but a 
short time to live, and is full of misery/' 

Then was sung, with exquisite pathos, by Mr. 
Tolley, Martin Luther's hymn, " Great God ! what 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 185 

do I see and hear ? " After the earth had been 
thrown upon the coffin, the choir sung, " I heard a 
voice from Heaven," to Croft's plaintive music ; 
and after the reading of the prayer, " Almighty 
God, with whom do live," an English translation 
was chanted of another of the Prince's favourite 
chorales, as follows : 

" To Thee, O Lord, I yield my spirit, 
Who break'st in love this mortal chain ; 

My life I but from Thee inherit, 

And death becomes my chiefest gain. 

In Thee I live, in Thee I die, 

Content for Thou art ever nigh." 

Then Dr. Elvey commenced the solemn strains 
of the " Dead March in Saul," as the mourners 
gathered round to take a last look into the grave ; 
so deep was the grief which he, as well as all 
present, felt at the sad and solemn ceremony, that 
it nearly overcame him, and it was only with a 
great effort and the utmost difficulty that he could 
manage to complete the March. 

In later years he would often speak of the 
eager expectation and deep anxiety in which he 
sat up late, on the last sad evening of the Prince's 
life, and of the hush of gloom and sorrow that 
seemed to fill the night when at last the news was 



186 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

brought that he had passed away. He used to 
say he felt as if he had lost another brother. 

For twenty years Dr. Elvey, with infinite pains, 
prepared the music for the memorial service on 
each anniversary of the Prince's death. 

Perhaps few are aware of the work that this 
entailed. It was extremely difficult to find suitable 
music to make sufficient variety on these occasions, 
and he often found it necessary to compose various 
pieces himself for the services. 

In this way his anthems, " The Souls of the 
Righteous" and " Blessed are the Dead," were 
written. As there was no instrument at the 
Mausoleum (where the service was held after 
1869), great care was required in preparing the 
music. Each member of the choir was provided 
with a full copy of the service in Sir George's 
writing, with every mark of expression most care- 
fully inserted, and the writing of these, with the 
requisite rehearsals, cost him annually at least a 
fortnight's hard work. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 187 



CHAPTER XXII. 

ON March loth, 1863, the royal borough 
decked itself in the gayest of holiday attire, 
for on that day the heir to the throne was married 
to the Princess Alexandra of Denmark. All the 
inhabitants of Windsor strove to show their 
delight in that an event of such import to the 
nation at large was to be celebrated in their 
midst. 

Unfortunately the weather, which had hitherto 
been lovely and spring-like, to everyone's great dis- 
appointment turned cold and wet. A full descrip- 
tion of the gorgeous ceremonial would be foreign 
to the purpose of this book, and soon cause it to 
exceed the limits of a volume ; but a reference to 
the newspapers of that date serves to show the 
intense and universal interest excited by the 
marriage. 

Shortly after eleven on the eventful morning 
all was in order. From the top of the park hill 
there looked down on the broad avenue, skirted 



188 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

by the two lines of household troops, the splen- 
didly-mounted Life Guards, whose cuirasses 
gleamed like silver in the sunlight. Below the 
iron gates, and extending on each side to the old 
arch leading to St. George's Chapel, the Berkshire 
Volunteers were formed up about 600 strong, 
under the command of their colonel. 

Ranged along the Park front of the Castle, 
and opposite the grand entrance, were the children 
of Her Majesty's Schools, about a hundred and 
twenty in number. 

On the towers and turrets of the grand old 
Castle, on the ramparts which surround the vene- 
rable pile, on the mound which forms the base of 
the imposing tower, over gateways and from 
windows, and from tall roofs, from every point 
which afforded a view of the line of procession, 
the eyes of countless spectators peered expectantly 
and waited impatiently the first blast of the 
trumpet that should herald the approach of the 
royal party. 

" As the constant stream of all that is great 
and noble and worthy in the country swept past 
on their way to the grand old Chapel of Edward, 
hallowed by so many associations of chivalrous 
and knightly deeds, and sacred to so much that is 






SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 189 

grand or gloomy in past history, the scene was 
one of continued ever- varying brilliant pageantry." 

Dn Elvey presided at the organ, and took 
charge of the musical part of the service on the 
great occasion, for which he had specially com- 
posed a wedding anthem, " Sing unto God." The 
first chorus is an elaborate setting for five voices, 
who break in, after an instrumental prelude, with 
a shout, in massive harmonies, to the initial words. 
The basses and tenors then give out the subject 
of a fugue, fully developed in all its parts, to the 
verse, " Sing praises to the Lord." After passing 
through all the phases of well-constructed imita- 
tion, chords are reverted to, and the first subject 
and words bring this finely-written number to a 
close. 

The next semi-chorus is accompanied by the 
organ only ; this is a quiet and graceful quartet, 
written in the author's most melodious vein. 

The third movement is a " German Chorale," 
and introduces the wood wind with the organ. 

"How happy ye ! " Fine bold harmony is set 
to this verse, which closes on the solo organ. 

A short largo, " Lo ! thus shall the man be 
blessed," with full band, serves as an introduction 
to the last " Amen " chorus. Returning to the 



igo LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

fugal form, a grand subject is recited by the 
basses, answered by all the voices in turn, and 
considerably enlarged upon ; the instrumentation 
is much heightened in colour, and brings this 
splendidly-written anthem to a close in truly regal 
style. 

At the ceremony Dr. Elvey wore his robes as a 
doctor of music. The choir was removed from 
the rows of benches beneath the canons' stalls in 
the body of the Chapel which they ordinarily 
occupy, and a considerable accession to their 
numbers having been made, both of male and 
female voices, the choir was placed on the right- 
hand side of the organ, in the open loft between 
the nave and the choir. Among the lady vocalists 
was Madame Jenny Lind Goldschmidt, whose 
clear voice and pure intonation were easily dis- 
tinguishable in the chorales of the service. 

The organ was supplemented by a complete 
orchestra, led by Mr. Anderson, the director of 
Her Majesty's private band. 

As the bridegroom's procession advanced, Dr. 
Elvey played Mendelssohn's march from " Athalie ;" 
and as the lovely bride entered with her bevy of 
fair maids, Handel's march from " Joseph" was 
performed. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 191 

When they reached the altar, and before the 
marriage service commenced, a long chorale by 
H.R.H. the late Prince Consort was sung by the 
choir. 

At the end of the first blessing, the 6;th Psalm 
was chanted, and at the conclusion of the service 
the Hallelujah chorus from Beethoven's " Mount of 
Olives " was sung before the bride and bridegroom 

retired. 

# * # * # 

A year or two afterwards, when Dr. Elvey was 
a guest at the Prince of Wales's garden party, he 
was much gratified at being warmly thanked by 
His Royal Highness for the anthem he had com- 
posed for his wedding. The Prince of Wales was 
always a very kind friend to Dr. Elvey, and the 
latter was much touched by his thoughtfulness and 
consideration at a time when most people would 
have been too much engaged to remember and be 
grateful for actions performed for them so long 
before. 

To the close of his life Dr. Elvey always spoke 
with pleasure of a delightful visit he made to Lord 
Antrim in Ireland about this time. 

He had an extremely rough passage across, and 
the steamer was forced to remain all night at sea. 



192 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

This, however, he thoroughly enjoyed, as he was 
an excellent sailor, and appeared on the water to 
lose his nervousness. The following day he arrived 
very tired and travel-worn at Lord Antrim's hos- 
pitable house. After dinner, his host, noticing 
how fatigued he was, suggested that perhaps he 
would like to retire to rest. 

That night he never forgot, for the effect of the 
sea air was so soporific that he used laughingly to 
declare he had never had such a sleep in his life. 

Here he had great fun, and probably contributed 
not a little to the enjoyment of his fellow-guests, 
for he was ever the soul of a party, and exerted 
himself greatly to give pleasure, especially to young 
people. 

His violin was his constant companion when 
visiting among friends, for he played so beauti- 
fully that they always begged him to bring this 
instrument with him. Although he much objected 
to play for people to hear how he played, he was 
always delighted to do so to give pleasure to any 
friends who really wished for some music. 

As an instance of his ready wit the following 
anecdote may be related : 

Whilst staying with some friends in the country, 
he, with a large party, went for a picnic, taking 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 193 

his violin with him. When luncheon was all ready 
on the grass, several friends of the name of Lamb 
were nowhere to be found. 

At this Dr. Elvey whipped out his violin and 
played, to the immense amusement of all, " Little 
Bopeep, she lost her sheep." 

On another occasion, after being introduced to 
an engaged couple, he quietly crept to the piano, 
and in a moment the merry strains of " Haste to 
the Wedding" rang through the room, causing 
much merriment to the assembled company, but 
somewhat discomforting the bashful pair. 

Another funny anecdote is related by one of his 
pupils, who says : 

" I have before me a slip of paper sent into my 
room when I was practising ' Blow in A ' from 
Boyce's score. 

"It runs thus : ' I like Blow as well as anyone, 
but I can't stand him at dinner-time. Blowed if I 
can!'" 

At this time, and indeed until the Cloisters 
were rebuilt, Dr. Elvey's pupils, as may be seen 
from the above story, had a practising room in his 
house, and this was sometimes rather a trial, as 
the following incident serves to show : 

" I recollect," says a pupil, " that I was practising 

o 



194 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

some exercises in his house before eight in the 
morning. Presently the door opened, and he came 
running in, evidently in the middle of shaving, and 
said, ' My good sir, you have nearly made me cut 
myself; you will play a wrong note there.' ' 

On April 2Oth, 1865, Dr. Elvey married Miss 
Jarvis, having been two years before left a widower 
with four little children, the youngest only three 
weeks old. 

This year he was asked to accept the post of 
musical examiner at Oxford, which he did, although 
he never cared much for the work of an examiner, 
as he felt so keenly for those who were defeated. 

In speaking of examinations, he would often 
relate the tale of a young man who had to go 
before Dr. Crotch. Upon being requested to 
play an organ solo, he selected the anthem known 
to all Cathedral choirs as, " Be Merciful" 
CROTCH. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 195 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

THE following year (1866) Dr. Elvey was 
again busy with a royal ceremonial the 
marriage of H.R.H. Princess Helena to Prince 
Christian, which took place in the private chapel 
of the Castle on the 5th of July. 

Not long after this event, Dr. Elvey lost his 
very kind friend, Mr. William Whitbread, to 
whom he was much attached. 

He had often stayed with him in his home, and 
on one of these occasions his host presented him 
with a very beautiful and valuable snuif-box, which 
had once belonged to Frederick the Great. 

Mr. Hancock, a favoured chorister, whom he 
took with him, by request, to Southill, thus de- 
scribes one of these pleasant visits : 

" When staying with Dr. Elvey at Mr. Whit- 
bread's house, I was invited (with my fellow- 
chorister) to join the house-party in a day's shoot- 
ing. But the Doctor was aghast at the idea of 
our carrying guns (as well he might be) ; weapons 



196 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

of all kinds were a source of horror to him, and 
he would never have them near him if he could 
avoid it. Great, indeed, was his discomfort when 
obliged to wear his sword, and nothing of this 
kind, not even his razors, would he permit to 
remain in his bedroom. 

" Only after much persuasion did he consent 
to our following the party with the game-cart. 
Even then he was uneasy about us, and appeared 
quite surprised and almost disappointed at our 
returning to the house as sound as when we left it. 

" I well remember, too, that he was thrown into 
a great state of trepidation at the commencement 
of this visit ; for we had to get from Paddington 
to Euston Station in a great hurry, and, the morn- 
ing being very frosty and the roads slippery, our 
cab-horse fell in the Euston Road. 

" The shock which we received by the sudden 
stoppage of the vehicle; the necessity for our 
changing rapidly into another cab ; to say nothing 
of the effects of the inevitable crowd which 
assembled, all combined to throw Dr. Elvey into 
such a condition of excitement that he had hardly 
recovered his nerve when we reached our destina- 
tion in Bedfordshire. 

" But, once there, I think he was as merry as I 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 197 

ever knew him. A large party of guests were in 
the house, but he showed nothing of his usual 
timidity when in the midst of strangers. 

" He was often asked to perform on a chamber 
organ which our host had placed in one of the 
rooms, and I noticed that he almost invariably 
included in his programme an extempore fantasia 
on the ' Vicar of Bray.' Whether it was his own 
choice, or that he knew it to be a favourite air of 
Mr. Whitbread's, I cannot say, but I do not 
remember his playing it on any other occasion. 

" During this visit a skating party was orga- 
nized one morning. Needless to say, Dr. Elvey 
did not venture to trust himself on skates, but he 
insisted upon going down to the lake with the other 
guests, and I presently found him, seated on a chair, 
and hitching himself along the edge of the ice. 

" He declined my offer to ' push behind/ and 
declared he was enjoying himself greatly, and he 
evidently was. 

" On many other occasions when I went from 
Windsor with him, I was forcibly struck by his 
unwonted mirth and cheerfulness. One was 
tempted to forget the master and teacher, and to 
remember only the kind and genial friend." 



1 9 8 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

For several years the Doctor held a large music- 
class at his house, which in 1868 was developed 
into the "Windsor and Eton Madrigal Society," 
started by him, with the assistance of Mr. Bliss 
and several other gentlemen, for the practice and 
private performance of madrigals and other un- 
accompanied part-music, secular and sacred. 

This society was very successful, and started 
the first season with eighty-seven performing 
members and forty-eight non-performers. 

These numbers continued steadily to increase 
until, when Sir George retired from his honorary 
conductorship in 1882, the performing members 
numbered considerably over a hundred. 

The first concert of the society was held on 
December 5th, 1868, and was a very successful 
one. 

For these concerts Sir George composed several 
pieces ; among others, " The Zetland Fishermen," 
"Softly, softly, blow, ye breezes," " Hark ! those 
voices," " Shall I wasting in despair," " Love under 
friendship's vesture," " Bright may the sun shine 
o'er him," written for the birthday of H.R.H. the 
Prince of Wales, 1868. 

For a Shakespeare concert, arranged in Feb- 
ruary, 1882, he wrote his song, "Caliban." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 199 

" All Sir George Elvey's compositions, anthems, 
and part-songs," says Mr. Rootham, "have this 
feature most clearly marked, they are so 'singable ; ' 
not a single note in any of the parts treble, alto, 
tenor, or bass, that is not easy of production. This 
makes it a real pleasure to vocalists to take part 
in any of his compositions, as they afford a fair 
opportunity of showing the various voices at their 
best. I suppose that there is scarcely a tenor lay- 
clerk in the kingdom who does not feel it to be a 
real pleasure to sing the solo part in 'In that 
Day ; ' and so with all his compositions, there is 
something real and substantial in them all. In 
fact, they were the reflex of the man himself." 

In the summer of 1868 Dr. Elvey went into 
the Lake District for his holiday. 

He was passionately fond of fine scenery, and 
intensely enjoyed the lovely country around 
Ambleside and Keswick. 

He made many excursions in the 'district, visit- 
ing Furness, Grange, and the beautiful old church 
of Cartmell, where he sat down to try the organ, 
and not a little astonished the old sexton, who had 
never before heard such exquisite strains proceed 
from the old instrument. 

Whilst taking a trip by steamer on Lake Win- 



200 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

dermere one day, he was astonished to hear a 
young man on the boat playing the cornet very 
beautifully, and, entering into conversation with 
him, he became much interested, and determined, 
if possible, to help him into a better position. 
Upon his return to Windsor he recommended 
him to the colonel and bandmaster of the ist 
Life Guards, who gladly availed themselves of his 
services, and were delighted to find that his play- 
ing surpassed even what they had been led to 
expect from Dr. Elvey's recommendation. 

Unfortunately, after he had been for some time 
a member of the band, he was recognized as a 
deserter, which grave offence he had committed 
through fear of being a second time sent to India. 

The man was obliged to return at once to the 
regiment from which he had deserted, and 
undergo the necessary punishment for his offence, 
to the great grief of the bandmaster, and of the 
poor man himself. 

As soon as his term of imprisonment was com- 
pleted, Dr. Elvey left no stone unturned to obtain 
his discharge and reinstatement in his former posi- 
tion. This cost him endless work and trouble for 
months, but at last he was allowed to buy the 
soldier's discharge. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 201 

This man, unlike many, proved himself well 
worthy of the trouble taken, and with the first 
money he could contrive to get together he repaid 
his benefactor the sum he had advanced to buy 
him off. 

This was only one of many instances of dis- 
interested kindness shown by Dr. Elvey to those 
who casually crossed his path. 

Those who had the most intimate acquaintance 
with him could not fail to be impressed by the 
great tenderness of his disposition ; his sympathy 
with anyone in trouble was of the deepest and 
most sincere kind. Like the Master whom he 
served, he truly wept with those who wept, and 
rejoiced with those that did rejoice. 

He was constantly made the recipient of various 
sad tales, as all who knew him were sure of his 
keen sympathy with them, and of his ready 
help. 

Although his means were far from large, he 
never willingly refused one appeal for assistance, 
but gave ungrudgingly to the utmost of his power. 
Like all who occupy a public position, he was 
frequently exposed to much unkindness and 
annoyances of various kinds, but he never com- 
plained, and readily forgave those who wronged 



202 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

him, and, as occasion offered, was ever the first to 
render them help when required. 

" I remember," writes an old pupil, " one man in 
particular making himself very obnoxious. In 
course of time this man fell ill and died, and there 
was no one who made more frequent inquiries, 
and did more for his comfort during his illness, 
than the Doctor. After his death, he was the 
means of starting a subscription for the widow 
who was left penniless, and thus enabled her 
to pay all that was due, and to have a little in 
hand to start on her own account." 

* # # # # 

One of the gentlemen of his choir thus writes of 
him : 

"We always looked upon Sir George as a 
friend to whom we could go in any trouble or 
difficulty. 

" If we were preparing for a concert or private 
engagement, we could take our music to him and 
he never failed to give us his most ready and 
willing help ; indeed, he would take as great pains 
in practising such pieces as he would have done 
had he himself been responsible for their per- 
formance." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 203 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

DURING the time that Dr. Elvey was at 
Windsor, he constantly took his choir to 
the Castle to serenade different members of the 
royal family on their birthdays, or for other 
musical entertainments. 

He often used to laugh over one of the early 
morning concerts, when the choir went up to the 
rooms of the Crown Princess of Prussia. It was 
in November, and as the affair was fixed for 
7 a.m. the day had scarcely broken when the men 
crept quietly to their allotted positions, Added 
to this, it was pouring with rain, and the light was 
just sufficient to show that the Long Walk was 
almost under water, but utterly inadequate for 
anyone to see a note of music. As if in irony of 
the unpropitious elements, the first piece on the 
programme was "Hail! Smiling Morn" (Spof- 
forth). 

This would probably, under the circumstances, 
have been dispensed with, but for the fact that the 



204 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

light being so bad the singers were dependent on 
what they all knew by heart. 

On April i5th, 1872, Sir George went with the 
choir to serenade the Princess Beatrice on her 
birthday. For this occasion he wrote a part-song, 
"The Thorn is in the bud," which was very much 
admired both by the Queen and Princess Beatrice. 
In the evening he received the following letter 
from Dean Wellesley : 

" DEAR SIR GEORGE, 

" I have a more than usually flattering mes- 
sage to you from the Queen. ' Tell Sir George 
Elvey how pleased the Queen was with the sing- 
ing to-day, and how much she admired the piece 
composed for Princess Beatrice, with such pretty 
verses/ 

" Yours sincerely, 

(Signed) " G. WELLESLEY." 

With these concerts Sir George took unlimited 
trouble, never allowing one to take place without 
a rehearsal, however late the request might reach 
him. 

Sometimes the choir was summoned to his house 
between 10.30 and 12 p.m., or, more frequently 
still, at 6.30 a.m., to rehearse before the serenade. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 205 

As he thus spared no pains to make the per- 
formances satisfactory, it was very gratifying to 
him to hear frequently from Her Majesty's own 
lips how pleased she was with the music, and how 
greatly she admired the singing of his choir. 

The last of these occasions on which he con- 
ducted was in 1881, when the choir went up to 
serenade the Duke and Duchess of Connaught. 
As it was Sunday morning the programme was 
composed exclusively of sacred music. 

Towards the end of 1870, extensive alterations 
were commenced in the Cloisters. The ground 
was lowered six feet, and the houses, which were 
covered with white lath-and-plaster work, and had 
fallen into a very dilapidated state, were thoroughly 
repaired and restored to their former condition. 

Dr. Elvey's house shared in the general renova- 
tion, and considerable additions and alterations 
were made to it. 

This obliged his removal until the work was 
accomplished, and, somewhat to his discomfort, he 
and his family resided for a year or two in Clarence 
Crescent, and subsequently, for a short time, in 
Eton. 

In 1871, Windsor was again gay with a royal 
wedding. The 2ist of March was the day ap- 



206 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

pointed for the marriage of H.R.H. the Princess 
Louise with the Marquis of Lome. 

Previously to the event Dr. Elvey had paid a 
short visit to Ascot, and there busily prepared his 
popular " Festal March " for its first performance. 
This is a distinct composition, and not, as has been 
on more than one occasion erroneously stated, 
taken from any other work. 

"Soon after the guests had assembled in St. 
George's Chapel, and the clergy had ranged them- 
selves to the right and left, the organ of the Chapel 
seemed to start from watchfulness and rolled forth 
the first notes of a noble Festal March, the compo- 
sition of the accomplished organist, Dr. Elvey. 
There is heard without, another screed of bagpipes, 
and the bridegroom immediately makes his appear- 
ance, accompanied by his supporters. 

# # . # # * 

"He gazes steadfastly at the door, the drums 
outside rattle the salute, the organ rolls forth 
Mendelssohn's grand march in 'Athalie,' and to 
the beautiful music paces in the fair central group 
of all this grandeur and state, the bride and brides- 
maids. Her Majesty the Queen is walking at the 
side of her daughter, herself being attended by the 
Prince of Wales and the Duke of Saxe-Coburg. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 207 

The Princess advances to the altar, and kneels, as 
Her Majesty does also, mother and daughter for 
a moment praying together. 

" Then, when they have risen, the nuptial service 
commences. 



" Then they kneel together, man and wife, and 
as they rise, the sonorous waves of that lovely 
organ peal again into the air, a tender and pathetic, 
but most royal, musical blessing of Beethoven, 
admirably rendered by Dr. Elvey, and more ex- 
pressive of the thought and prayers of those 
witnessing the spectacle than any words could well 
be. The voices of the Queen's choristers mingle 
with the organ with admirable effect. 

# # * % * 

" The happy pair lead the way down the crimson 
path ; the Queen and the Heir-apparent come after 
the wedded couple, the Duke of Saxe-Coburg 
keeping his place close by Her Majesty. 

"What a different scene was this to those blood- 
won triumphs from which the German Prince had 
just come, and how different from the battle-music 
which he has been hearing, the sweet and holy 
melody of Handel, with which the skilful organist 



208 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

concludes the ceremony. Again one is sensible 
that music is much more eloquent than language." 

The day following the royal wedding, Dr. 
Elvey left Windsor for a very brief holiday after 
all the work and excitement that had fallen to his 
share, and when he returned was met at the station 
by one of his pupils. Upon inquiring what news 
there was in Windsor, to his surprise he re- 
ceived the reply, " The news is that you are to be 
knighted." 

On the Friday (March 24th), he, with Dr. W. 
Sterndale Bennett and Mr. Julius Benedict, went 
to the Castle to receive from Her Majesty's own 
hands the honour conferred upon them. 

Whilst waiting in the ante-room, they dis- 
cussed Mozart's additional accompaniments to the 
" Messiah," and this conversation was such a plea- 
sure to Sir George, that on his return home, when 
asked about the ceremony, he only remarked with 
regard to it that he had been afraid of tripping up 
with his sword, and then enlarged on his discourse 
with the two brother-musicians, and how greatly 
delighted he was to find that they both agreed with 
him that the accompaniments, clever and beautiful 
as they undoubtedly are, nevertheless are quite out 
of character with Handel's work. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 209 

This conversation had evidently impressed him 
far more than the regal ceremony, for he never 
cared to be placed in a position of prominence, and 
was averse to making an unnecessary display of 
his honours. 

Once, when putting away the box which con- 
tained his court uniform, a friend remarked that he 
had never seen him wearing it. He replied, " No, 
and I hope you never may ! " 

On the Sunday afternoon following the wedding, 
it was known that a portion of the music used at 
this ceremonial was to be performed, and an 
immense congregation filled the choir and nave of 
St. George's Chapel, the majority having to stand 
throughout the service. A small band, led by Mr. 
Gunness, was in the organ-loft, and the trumpeter 
was Mr. T. Harper. T.R.H. Prince and Princess 
Christian were present at the service, which was 
brought to a close with Sir George Elvey's " mag- 
nificent" Festal March. 

Soon after this the committee of the Windsor 
and Eton Madrigal Society suggested to the 
members that they should give a concert in Sir 
George's honour, the programme for which was to 
be entirely composed of selections from his works. 
This idea was warmly taken up, a first-rate band 

p 



210 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

was engaged, and no effort was spared to make the 
affair a success. 

The concert took place in St. Mark's School 
on the 5th of July, the following being the 
programme : 

PART I. 

SACRED CANTATA " The Lord is King." 
Composed for the Gloucester Festival, 1853. 

SELECTION FROM A SACRED CANTATA " Sing unto God." 
Performed at the Worcester Festival, 1857. 

PART II. 
A SELECTION FROM A MS. CANTATA "Mount Carmel." 

SELECTION FROM THE ORATORIO "The Resurrection and 
Ascension." 

FESTAL MARCH. 

Performed at the marriage of H.R.H. Princess Louise, 
March 2ist, 1871. 

CANTATA. 
Composed for Her Majesty's birthday. 

The following account of the concert has been 
published : 

" The Windsor and Eton Amateur Madrigal 
Society, at their last grand orchestral concert, 
testified their high appreciation of the great musi- 
cal ability of their honorary conductor, Sir George 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 211 

Elvey, Mus. Doc. Oxon., by making up the whole 
of their programme from his works. 

" The first piece was written for the Gloucester 
Festival of 1853, and contains some excellent con- 
trapuntal writing, and some elegant solos for 
soprano, tenor, and bass voices, which were given 
with adequate effect by Miss Edith Wynne, Mr. 
W. H. Cummings, Mr. Ramsbottom, and Mr. 
Orlando Christian. The scoring is thoughtful 
and good, and the choruses broad and well- 
written. The second item, ' The Lord will com- 
fort Zion/ was only a selection from a large work 
composed for the Worcester Festival of 1857; 
but the portions selected were sufficient to show 
the scholarship of the composer in the most ad- 
vantageous light. The contralto solo, sung by 
Miss Marion Severn, and the three choruses are 
admirable specimens of Sir George Elvey's style 
of treatment, and were enthusiastically received. 
Miss Edith Wynne and Miss Severn sang the 
two solos from * Mount Carmel/ with artistic 
taste ; the air, ' Mine eye runneth down/ for con- 
tralto, having a beautiful melody, with an elegant 
clarionet obligato part played by Mr. Webb, and 
the airs from the oratorio, ' The Resurrection and 
Ascension/ were brilliantly sung by Mr. Cum- 



212 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

mings. These airs are beautiful specimens of 
thoughtful writing, and bear evidence of the well- 
used skill of the musician. The ' Festal March/ 
which followed, was composed for, and performed 
at the marriage of Her Royal Highness the Prin- 
cess Louise, bold, clever, and modern in style, 
aptly instrumented, and with a vein of fresh 
melody running through the march, as well for the 
construction as for the performance, gave great 
pleasure to the audience. In the cantata com- 
posed for Her Majesty's birthday, Sir George 
Elvey has treated the ' National Anthem ' in a 
variety of ways, and always cleverly and effec- 
tively, as a chorale, as a fugue, and as a fantasia. 
There is also a well-written madrigal, * Through 
the Realm/ introduced into the cantata, and 
although not so well sung as the other portions of 
the work, was still enough to show the versatility 
of the composer's talent. Sir George Elvey con- 
ducted the whole performance; there was an 
efficient band and chorus, the former led by Mr. 
Carrodus, and the latter was made up from mem- 
bers of the society under whose auspices the con- 
cert was given, together with some past and 
present pupils of Sir George Elvey ; and included 
also the services of Lady Harrington, Hon. Mrs. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 213 

Wellesley, Hon. Mrs. Ponsonby, Hon. Miss 
Grosvenor, Misses Montresor, Miss Fawkes, Mrs. 
Ellison, Miss Ellison, Mrs. Hale, Miss De Rosen, 
Miss F. Fawkes, Sir John Harrington, Mr. Ver- 
rinder, Mus. Bac., Mr. Keeton, Mus. Bac., Rev. 
L. G. Hayne, Mus. Doc., Rev. Thomas Helmore, 
Rev. H. Snow, Rev. F. F. Vidal, Rev. W. H. 
Bliss, Mr. H. A. Chignell, Mr. Blair Oliphant, the 
Hon. Seymour Egerton, and many others. Her 
Royal Highness the Princess Christian was pre- 
sent among the audience to do honour to Sir 
George Elvey, and the Rev. Lord Wriothesley 
Russell, Sir Thomas and Lady Biddulph, Lady 
Susan Melville, Colonel Howard Vyse, Rev. S. 
Hawtrey (by whose permission the meeting was 
held in the schoolroom of St. Mark's), Dr. Fair- 
bank, Mr. John Goss, Mr. Turle, and others, 
also testified by their presence the desire to 
pay a well-deserved compliment to Sir George 

Elvey." 

* * * # # 

Sir George, finding it impossible to personally 
express his thanks to the many friends who had 
united in giving him such an ovation, well-deserved 
as it was, shortly afterwards issued the following 
circular : 



214 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

"July 5tti, 1871. 

" Sir George Elvey desires to express his heart- 
felt thanks to all who have, either as performers 
or- audience, assisted in this evening's concert. 
They may well believe it is an occasion that he 
can never forget, or cease to remember with deep 
gratification and pleasure so long as he lives, con- 
nected as it is with the honour which Her Majesty 
has been graciously pleased recently to bestow upon 
him, and with the Society, in whose service he has 
spent many happy hours. 

" He trusts that all concerned will accept this 
method of conveying his sense of their kindness, 
which leaves him but one regret that he is so 
little capable of expressing the feelings by which 
he is so deeply moved." 

Whilst staying at Sunninghill in the summer of 
this year, he wrote his lovely " Gavotte for Violin 
and Piano," to play at the Hon. Victoria Grosvenor's 
annual concert at Rickmans worth. On these 
occasions she generally called upon her old friend 
and master to play a violin solo. 

On his return from one of his many visits to 
Moor Park, his friends were surprised to hear that 
Miss Grosvenor had induced him to venture out 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 215 

on horseback with her. This was a wonderful 
thing for him to do, for he was far too nervous to 
care to trust himself in such an exalted position. 

When a new organ was erected in Rickmans- 
worth Church, Sir George drew up the specifica- 
tion, and took great interest in the work, after- 
wards going down to take part in celebrating the 
opening. He was very frequently called upon to 
preside at the opening of new organs erected in 
the churches of his friends and pupils. His skilled 
manipulation and extensive knowledge of effect in 
the combination of stops greatly enhanced the 
reputation of any organ-builder. 

Amongst those he opened were : Martock, in 
Somersetshire, Henley-on-Thames, Windsor Parish 
Church, Eton College, Haling, Watford, Ascot, 
Wokingham, Sunningdale, the Royal Holloway 
College, and Brocklesby, Lincolnshire. In fact, 
all over the country his well-known skill was fre- 
quently requisitioned. 

Not long before Sir George left Windsor, he 
went to open an organ in a town not far from 
London. As he was standing in the church be- 
fore taking his place at the instrument, a gentleman 
was heard to remark, " Sir George Elvey looks 
rather old ; do you think he can be physically 



216 



LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



capable of such a performance as we have been led 
to expect ? " 

Long ere the service ended, all his doubts 
were dispelled, and with intense delight he ex- 
claimed, " Marvellous ! truly marvellous ! I never 
heard so splendid an accompanist in my life ! " 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 217 



CHAPTER XXV. 

IN March, 1874, H.R.H. the Duke of Edin- 
burgh was married to the Grand Duchess 
Marie of Russia at St. Petersburg. 

A few weeks later they reached England, and 
Windsor was en fte to give them a fitting recep- 
tion. 

On the Sunday afternoon following the arrival 
of the bridal pair at the Castle, notice was duly 
given that they would attend the service in St. 
George's Chapel, and a tremendous crowd assem- 
bled outside each door long before the clock 
chimed the hour for opening. 

One present thus describes the scene : " I 
went, long before the doors were opened, to wait 
at the north entrance, hoping to secure a seat in 
the Chapel. The crush was terrible, and, as a 
verger opened the door, I narrowly escaped 
having my arm broken, and was carried off my 
feet backwards almost into the middle of the 
nave. 



218 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" I succeeded at last in entering the choir, but 
as the vergers had neglected to guard the doors 
every seat was full, and the centre so packed that 
people could scarcely move hand or foot. 

" I managed to make my way out through the 
lay-clerks' stalls, and, by the kindness of Sir George 
Elvey, at length found a safe refuge in the organ- 
loft. 

" The sight from this point was extraordinary ; 
the choir was filled with a living mass, so closely 
packed that they were unable to stir. Both 
vergers were imprisoned among the people, and 
when the Duke and Duchess arrived (the latter 
apparently greatly alarmed at the crush), they 
found their stalls locked, and the vergers, in spite 
of frantic efforts, made to the serious peril of 
those around them, were unable to get near to 
open them. 

" In despair, the Duke's equerry held his stick 
above the heads of the people to receive the bunch 
of keys, and thus was enabled to admit the royal 
party to their stalls. 

" Besides the Duke and Duchess, there were 
present Her Majesty the Queen, who, with the 
Prince and Princess of Wales, occupied the royal 
closet. " The Princess Christian, Prince Leopold, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 219 

and the Lords and Ladies-in-Waiting, were in the 
stalls of the Knights of the Garter. 

"The choir was augmented by some of the 
choristers of Westminster Abbey and the Chapel 
Royal, St. James's. Sir George presided at the 
organ, and he had, in addition, a full string band 
in the organ-loft, composed of members of Her 
Majesty's private band, and the band of the 2nd 
Life Guards, led by Mr. Gunness. The anthem 
was, " Sing unto God ; " and after the service the 
Russian national hymn was performed, followed 
by the " Festal March," and concluding with the 
English national anthem. 

Magnificently was the music performed ; 
splendid, indeed, was Sir George's playing on 
the lovely old organ, the tones of which can never 
be forgotten by those who heard them, so rich, 
so full, so sweet, shown off to the greatest advan- 
tage by the grand, full style in which he used to 
play. 

For him to play a wrong note or make a mistake 
of any kind was practically unknown, for nothing 
was ever left to chance. 

On this matter a friend writes : " I well re- 
member noticing, from the time of my first 
coming to Windsor until his resignation, the 



220 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

great care Sir George always bestowed upon 
every detail of his work. He would never per- 
mit the slightest mistake or inaccuracy to pass at 
rehearsal, or in either manuscript or printed 
copies of music in the use of the choir. Every- 
thing was well rehearsed, and nothing was left to 
chance. 

" But this fact, above and beyond all, shone out 
clear and bright the more so, probably, because 
it was never obtrusive that the composer, the 
organist, the precentor, was not taking part in 
a mere musical performance, all his efforts being 
to the praise and glory of God. 

"Although engaged for so large a portion of 
his life in the rendering of the Cathedral Service, 
it never became to him a cold and formal ordeal. 
His interest in divine service as a service was 
acute, and no member of the congregation at St. 
George's could have followed the lessons with 
closer attention than he. Frequently would he 
comment upon such passages of Scripture as 
appealed most strongly to him, and he had a 
special affection for the prophetical books of the 
Old Testament and the Book of Job. 

" A metaphor used by the prophet Isaiah im- 
pressed him very greatly ; it was ' As the shadow 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 221 

of a great rock in a weary land.' The example of 
so amiable and upright a character can never be 
lost upon the many choristers and pupils who 
came under his influence. He rests from his 
labours, and his works follow him." 



222 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

HHHE Rev. Lord Wriothesley Russell, who 
-JL was appointed a Canon of Windsor in 1 844, 
was ever a warm friend to Sir George, who spent 
many happy hours with him, both at Windsor and 
at Chenies. Their hearts were so entirely united 
in the one true bond of fellowship, the love of 
Christ, that their mutual intercourse was a source 
of pleasure and profit to both. 

Lord Russell, when in residence, often held 
interesting Gospel meetings for the soldiers, and 
none enjoyed these more keenly than Sir George, 
who, with his pupils, never willingly omitted 
attending them, although at times his gravity was 
sorely tried during the hymns by the extraordinary 
vocal sounds from those present. 

He also delighted to attend similar meetings for 
the villagers, held every Wednesday evening 
during the winter months in the barn at Buckhurst 
Park, Sunninghill, and many who were then present 
will remember his devout and earnest face, as he 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 223 

sat drinking in with joy the message of salvation 
delivered by the late Sir Stevenson Blackwood, 
Mr. (now the Rev.) Neville Sherbrooke,and others; 
and he contributed not a little to the enjoyment of 
those present by playing the harmonium. He took 
great interest in the choir, trained by the Misses 
Savory, and was ever ready to write or arrange 
tunes for them. 

A clergyman, writing at this time to a friend, 
thus speaks of him : " Sir George is an old friend 
of mine. I have the highest regard for his 
personal character, which is so gloriously honest 
in these days of humbug and hypocrisy." 

In April, 1874, Sir George's oratorio, "The 
Resurrection and Ascension," was performed by 
the St. George's Choral Union at the Queen's 
Hall, Glasgow, and met with marked approval. 
We cannot refrain from quoting from a full 
description which was printed with the book of 
words for the occasion. 

After going through each movement it con- 
cludes thus : 

" So ends a work replete with the most scholarly 
writing, the most tasteful and elegant melodial 
designs, the most genuine impulse of a poetical 
nature, with a dignified and yet tender expression 



224 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

of the purest and most exalted Christian senti- 
ment." 

Referring to the final chorus, the " Hallelujah/' 
in this oratorio, Sir F. Ouseley observed, that, 
after Handel's " Hallelujah," there was no better 
setting to those words. 

In the May following the royal wedding the 
Czar came over to visit Her Majesty, and during 
his stay in England a grand performance was 
given at the Crystal Palace in his honour, by the 
London contingent of the Handel Festival Choir, 
and ten military bands, under the direction of Mr. 
Auguste Manns. 

After the Russian March and Hymn, and two 
or three other pieces, vocal and instrumental, Sir 
George's " Festal March" was played in grand style 
by the united bands, to the thorough satisfaction 
of the composer, who was present. 

A much less imposing concert was given shortly 
after at Datchet under Sir George's conductorship, 
one piece in the programme being Haydn's 
"Surprise Symphony." Just before this com- 
menced, Mr. Blair Oliphant, seeing many friends 
among the performers, said to Sir George, " Can- 
not you give me something to do ? " 

At this Sir George took up a handful of fire- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 225 

irons, handing them to him, saying, "You can 
clash these when I give you a signal." A few 
bars before the appointed place for the discharge, 
he looked round to see whether his friend was in 
readiness. This movement was, however, mis- 
taken for the signal, and the " surprise" being 
promptly given, effectually startled both orchestra 
and audience. 

This year (1874) the series of special Christmas 
services in St. George's Chapel was commenced. 
They were an immense enjoyment to all who were 
able to take part in them, and the following 
account will give some idea of their beauty : 

"It having been announced that a selection 
from the ' Messiah ' was to be given on Christmas 
Eve at St. George's Chapel, a large audience 
assembled and completely filled the vast edifice. 
They were greatly enraptured and impressed with 
the harmonious numbers of Handel, and of Sir 
John Goss and Sir George Elvey. 

" Sir George made the magnificent organ speak 
with its wonted sweetness and power. 

" The service opened by the choir singing the 
Rev. A. Gurney's carol, ' Come ye lofty, come ye 
lowly/ set to music by Sir George Elvey. Alter- 
nate verses were sung by the trebles, altos, and 

Q 



226 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

basses, with full choruses. The effect was grand. 
Selections from Handel's ' Messiah ' took the 
place of the anthem. The freshness of the boys' 
voices, and their excellent training, never showed 
itself to greater advantage than in the solos en- 
trusted to them in this instance. 

" Of the selected choruses we can speak with 
unqualified praise, the ' Hallelujah' especially, evi- 
dently creating a marked effect upon the audience. 

" To Sir George Elvey we are not only indebted 
for the successful conduct of a service more than 
ordinarily acceptable, but likewise for an accom- 
paniment to Handel's masterpiece which we but 
rarely meet with." 

The Christmas services satisfactorily ended, Sir 
George would become the life of the party at home, 
and with merry jokes and funny tales would make 
the Christmas evening a time of immense enjoy- 
ment to all privileged to be present. 

About this time the restoration of the Cloisters 
was completed, and Sir George was once more 
comfortably settled in his old house, which was 
no little satisfaction to him, after being moved 
from pillar to post for two or three years. 

The unsatisfactory state of the chimes in the 
Curfew Tower near by, had long been a source of 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 227 

annoyance to him, and with his usual perseverance 
he devoted a great deal of time and attention to 
the work of finding out what tune they ought to 
play. He carefully examined the chime-barrel, 
and found that several pegs were missing. 

These he had supplied ; the result being that 
the tune was rendered intelligible. However, in 
consequence of the dilapidated state of the works, 
the performance was far from perfect. 

In 1874, under his direction, Mr. Willoughby 
repaired and restored them, and they now play 
admirably. It is almost unnecessary to add that 
the tune played is St. David's, usually sung to the 
ist Psalm, " How blest the man who ne'er consents," 
followed by what is known to bell-ringers as the 
"King's Change." 

THE PAST AND PRESENT STATE OF THE CHIMES. 



f-ff'g . J I I I - 

Y^ \ \-> J J * J. j j i 






228 



LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



Pf , ~- 


' - i II , 




1> * J-I' J I 1 

ft : J | 


^^^=^-=j ii j -" 
ii 1 1 j MI , i i i 


J 




ti-^-^ ^ 1 <> jLe-J. 

I i II r r > 


- {.- 1 


fr ? T; 1 J - J 
ffit - P J 1 


1 1 H-^ 

=; * p s~~d i 1 r 




? ? j r J J 


j r i =- J j j 


o II 



Both clock and chimes were made about the 
year 1690, by John Davis, a name well known to 
readers of Windsor history. This clever work- 
man was the son of one William Davis, black- 
smith both to the King and the Corporation. The 
latter was an ardent royalist. He had executed 
various works at Windsor Castle in the reign of 
Charles I. ; but, when patronized by Oliver Crom- 
well, this independent man, though he continued 
to do the Castle business for the sake of the 
veneration in which he held that edifice, would 
not touch a shilling of the usurper's money in 
return. 

John Davis's supply of the clock and chimes for 
the Curfew Tower is to be found in the records of 
the Castle. This entry quaintly puts it that John 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 229 

Davis is to supply the requisite machinery, but 
that the price to be paid for the same is to be 
fixed by Sir Christopher Wren, who thus would 
seem to have added campanology to his many 
other acquirements. 



23 o LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

LIKE all Cathedral churches, St. George's 
Chapel possessed some peculiar characters, 
foremost among whom was a man, Billy Leggett 
by name, who for fifty years regularly attended 
the daily services. This remarkable man was not 
merely famous in his own neighbourhood, but, one 
might almost say, throughout the country. 

Eton boys knew "Silly Billy" well, and, in 
former times, teased him often. Some of our 
present statesmen, and many of the nobility 
probably remember him. 

Billy made himself chiefly famous by his atten- 
dance at the daily services in St. George's Chapel 
and in Eton College Chapel. At least half a cen- 
tury before his death he began his queer freaks. 

His great affection was for the Church, his 
terrible hatred for the devil. He always spoke of 
the latter as him, and constantly made his horrors 
a theme for threat and inquiry. 

He was unable to read or write, yet could follow 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 231 

well the morning and evening services, knew the 
proper collects and lessons for the day, and could 
parrot-like repeat the Psalms. 

He had a reserved seat in each chapel. The 
Canons of St. George's provided for him in cold 
weather a mat whereon to stand until the chapel 
had been warmed. He was usually in attendance 
some time before the service began, and at times 
would astonish strangers by talking to himself in 
the interim. He would frighten anyone who 
unwittingly stole his seat, for he would stand by 
and annoy the intruder by making all kinds of 
grimaces, at the same time giving forth utterances 
decidedly expressive. Were the wrong lesson 
read or the wrong collect used, the offending 
minor canon was sure to suffer; for, though 
usually quiet when left alone, Billy has been 
known to spring from his seat in such a case and cry : 
"That's wrong!" On one Christmas afternoon, 
indeed, when a minor canon walked to the lectern 
in St. George's, and made this mistake with regard 
to a lesson, Billy rushed up to him, seized him by 
the surplice, told him in a shout of his error, named 
the proper lesson, and was perfectly indignant be- 
cause the minor canon would not take his word 
without going back to the stall to assure himself. 



232 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Once the old man was less flurried, but a little 
more cunning. A minor canon read the wrong 
collect, and after service evaded Billy, but met 
him next day, and hoping to pacify him, said at 
once, " Oh ! I've an old waistcoat to give you, and 
if you'll come to my lodgings I'll let you have it." 
Billy went, quietly secured the waistcoat, and then 
turned short upon the giver, " You read the wrong 
collect last night ! " 

He was critical also as to the music, had a 
singular ear-knowledge of it, would join in it 
when he liked it, and would occasionally make 
himself somewhat disagreeable in the organ-loft 
and elsewhere by his more than audible broken 
tenor quiver-and-quake Amens at the end of the 
collects or prayers. 

He had a perfect notion of what was and what 
was not the correct thing in the way of anthems 
for certain seasons, feasts, and fasts, and with a 
little management would give the leading parts of 
anthems that were wont to be sung on certain 
days thirty or forty years before. 

His memory, in truth, was so good that he 
would name the particular days of the month for 
each of such items. 

He never failed, either, to compare the ancient 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 233 

with the modern in music, called the latter " stuff," 
and, queerly enough, always gave to the ladies the 
credit of the degenerated taste. 

At times, whenever the choir had gone to St 
Paul's or elsewhere, he regarded himself as being 
fully responsible in their absence, and, sitting in 
his old place, would send forth crooked " Amens " 
in a voice that seemed a special union of treble, 
alto, tenor, and bass. 

But his weakest point was his aversion to the 
devil. A passing reference to him in the sermon, 
distinct or otherwise, would cause the old man to 
gnash his teeth, clasp his hands, and become 
marvellously excited. He seemed in this matter 
to have an inner sight and the fullest imagination, 
for he often fancied he saw him perched on the 
organ, and would openly wonder what would be 
the organist's words and feelings had he caught 
the sight. He would occasionally ask Sir George, 
" You wouldn't like to meet him on the organ-loft 
stairs, would you ? " 

Hearing of a murder, too, he would say, "Oh, 
yes, th' old un's bin at it ! It's all him / " 

He always made inquiry on a Monday if^the 
preacher on the day before had run him down and 
given it him well, and never failed to seize Sir 



234 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

George or others who might have been away on a 
visit to any of our cathedrals, and ask, " Did they 
run him down where you've been ? " The answer, 
" Oh, yes, Billy ; they always do it," would delight 
him, and he would exclaim in joy, " Then he must 
be guilty! He must be! He hasn't got a leg to 
stand on ! " 

But he looked upon him from a commercial 
standpoint as well, and said once to a dignitary of 
St. George's Chapel, " You're always running him 
down. But he's the best friend you ever 'ad. If 't 
'adn't bin for him, you'd have had nothing to do ! " 

In the hot weather, one afternoon, two or three 
years before his death, he became faint in the 
Chapel, and had to be taken out. One of the 
Military Knights who dwell in the Castle sent 
him a glass of port wine, which he took at a gulp. 

A lay-clerk said to him in sympathy, " I suppose 
it was the hot weather ? " " It's 'otter somewhere 
else where he is ! " Billy shouted. 

He, according to Billy, was conversant with all 
that was going on, delighted in setting people by 
the ears, and, above all other vices, took in the 
local papers every week ! 

It is averred by certain people who knew Billy, 
that in his early days he understood well what were 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 235 

the chief points in the doctrine of Christianity, and 
what was or was not a good sermon. He could talk 
with ease of public events, and a preacher who 
chose a text not according to his ideas of the day 
met with terribly off-hand censure. Billy Leggett 
was never able to follow any trade, and in the old 
days helped his mother by turning her mangle. 

Directly, however, the time for the Eton service 
approached, persuasion was useless, and Billy was 
off at once. He lived then in Bier Lane, and the 
Eton and St. George's Chapel services followed 
each other, so that the choristers at the first could 
take part in the second. This was in Dean 
Hobart's time. One of the singing-men was blind 
and lame, yet could not be excused, and Billy was 
accustomed to conduct him to Eton and thence 
back to St. George's. 

Now and then, on the return journey, the ring 
of the Chapel bell was heard ere they reached 
Windsor, and Billy would be at once furious, let 
go his charge, and toddle off without mercy. 
Billy was very fond of Luther's hymn, and pre- 
vailed one evening upon Sir George to hear him 
sing it in the chorister's singing-school. Billy's 
chief desire was to present well a remarkable 
shake which one of the then lay-clerks was wont 



236 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

to introduce at the end ; and after he had succeeded 
to his own full satisfaction, he requested further 
that Sir George would ask the Dean to let him sing 
the hymn in the Chapel next day as an anthem ! 
saying in an off-hand manner, " If you'll tell him 
my name is Leggett, he'll know all about me." 

He did one day succeed, without limit, in 
securing for himself a highly distinguished position 
for the time being. We give his own version of 
the story. Once a year the choristers belonging 
to Billy's two places of worship had what they 
called their Eton feast, and for that afternoon the 
service at St. George's was omitted. Billy was 
always an invited guest, and on one of the 
occasions, in the interval between the beef and 
the plum-pudding, the St. George's bell began to 
ring. No one could hold him back, and off 
he toddled to Windsor. 

The Dean and Canons were then obliged to 
keep twenty-one days' residence in succession, and, 
either through inadvertence, or (as some say) to 
secure himself from losing his residence, Dean 
Hobart had most unexpectedly arranged for ser- 
vice. He read it himself, and his sole auditor was 
Billy, who likewise made himself responsible for 
the preces and the chants. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 237 

The Dean, wanting apparently to shorten the 
-service, omitted the Magnificat and was going on 
with the Nunc Dimittis. This was too much for 
Billy. He rushed to the Dean in his stall, and 
exclaimed, in more than a whisper, " My soul doth 
magnify ! " " Oh, ah ! " was the quiet reply, and 
Dean Hobart went back to the proper place. 

The Dean was very kind to Billy's mother, and, 
when she lay ill, sent her some jam. On her 
death, Billy went forthwith to the Dean and 
-said, " Please, sir, mother's dead ; may I eat the 
jam?" 

Billy died in January, 1875, and Sir George, 
who had always taken a kindly interest in the 
poor eccentric creature, collected funds and had a 
tombstone erected to his memory in Windsor 
^cemetery, bearing the following inscription : 

IN MEMORY OF 

WILLIAM LEGGETT, 

FOR UPWARDS OF 50 YEARS 

A REGULAR ATTENDANT AT THE DAILY SERVICES 
OF ST. GEORGE'S CHAPEL. 

DIED JAN. 23, 1875, 
AGED 73 YEARS. 

Lord, I have loved the habitation of Thy house. 
.Ps. xxvi. 8. 

The entrance of Thy Word giveth light ; it giveth 
understanding unto the simple./^, cxix. 130. 



238 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Wise, the sexton at St. George's during this 
period, was another oddity, who used to greatly 
amuse frequenters of the Chapel by his eccentri- 
cities and absurd remarks. 

He had a great affection for long words and 
high-sounding phrases, which, however, he could 
rarely contrive to use in their proper form or 
place. He was a thorough Mr. Malaprop. 

A clergyman once hurried into the nave of St. 
George's before service, and remarked that he had 
walked all the way from Bishopsgate in less than 
an hour. To which Wise replied: "Well, you 
must be a good Presbyterian, then ! " 

One evening, Dr. Bridge and Dr. Keeton, who 
were then residing in Windsor, took Wise up to 
London to the Italian opera. 

After the performance had begun, one of them 
said to him, " I fear you don't understand much of 
this, Wise?" 

They were somewhat astonished when he 
promptly replied : " Ah ! you forget I was three 
years in France ! " 

He once remarked of Dean Wellesley, whom he 
saw taking a constitutional outside the Chapel : 
" Look at the Dean, a-propagating up and down 
them steps ! " 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 239 

According to his own account, Wise's favourite 
paper was the " Ulcerated News." 

This man was fully under the impression that 
the Chapel belonged to him, and that no one had 
a right to see any part of it without remunerating 
him. "It doesn't matter," said Wise on one 
occasion, " it doesn't matter who it is. Nobody 
not even Mr. Dean himself can't go in the 
Chapel without first insulting me ! " 

He at last carried this to such an extent that he 
defeated his own object, for the Dean and Canons 
forbade any further gratuities to be given to the 
vergers. 



240 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

IN the summer of 1875 Sir George lost his 
eldest son from paralysis, brought on, it was 
said, by smoking while too young, and also probably 
by a slight sunstroke whilst boating on the river. 

He had been ill for a long time, and this sorrow 
weighed heavily on his father. 

It is wonderful, in considering Sir George's 
chequered life, to think how his sensitive soul 
succeeded in rising superior to the many troubles 
he was called upon to suffer, and in putting self 
aside in what he felt was his life-work the pro- 
moting of the honour and glory of God in the 
worship of the sanctuary. His work for this end 
was unceasing ; no private engagements, no private 
pleasures, were undertaken if they were likely to 
interfere with this. Rarely, indeed, except for a 
short three weeks' holiday in the year, was he 
absent from the Chapel. 

Although invariably of a somewhat serious and 
.earnest mood when engaged in his work, he was 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 241 

decidedly cheerful and even playful when free 
from responsibilities. Mr. Hancock in speaking 
of this says : " His cheerfulness showed itself 
very plainly when he was preparing for or enjoy- 
ing a holiday. I remember once assisting him in 
packing some luggage when he was leaving home, 
and, as he put up his razors, he admonished me 
never to begin shaving if I could help it, as it was 
such a great bother. ' If you do so at all/ he said, 
* you had better begin by practising on the cat ! ' ' 
####-# 

In June, 1876, Sir George's daughter, Nellie, 
was bridesmaid to Anna Savory, who married the 
Rev. J. H. Johnson, Rector of Brocklesby, Lin- 
colnshire, and Sir George kindly went over to Sun- 
ningdale and played the service for his old pupil. 

Curiously enough, it was on this same day, six 
years later, that he married Mrs. Johnson's sister. 

They had both been kind friends to his 
children, almost from their babyhood, his youngest 
son, Charles, being but eighteen months old when 
the friendship commenced. 

In July another of the festivals in aid of the 
Choir Benevolent Fund took place in St. George's 
Chapel under his direction. 

The festival service was -drawn up in a similar 

R 



242 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

form to that used on previous occasions, except 
that, of course, variety was made by having a 
different selection of anthems. The choir, as 
was usual on any special event, was supplemented 
by gentlemen and choristers from the Chapel 
Royal, St. Paul's, Westminster Abbey, and Eton 
College, and by a small orchestra. 

The programme included " Lift up thine eyes !" 
by Sir John Goss. The veteran composer was by 
the side of Sir George in the organ-loft, and, as 
the last strains of his anthem died away, he turned, 
and with tears in his eyes, and in a voice broken 
by deep feeling, exclaimed, " Ah ! I never hear 
my anthems done as they are here." 

In December there was a grand performance at 
the Castle, when Sir George played the organ. 

Miss Sophie Ferrari, Miss Jessie Jones, and 
Madame Trebelli were the soloists, and selections 
were given from " Athalie." Amongst other items 
a cantique, " Noel," was sung by Mr. Cummings 
and the chorus. A month later the Windsor and 
Eton Madrigal Society gave a performance be- 
fore the Queen in St. George's Hall, Windsor 
Castle. At this, Sir George's motet, " Hark ! those 
voices," was sung. It is written for two choirs, 
and when the distant one, which was concealed, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 243 

commenced, it created not a little surprise and 
interest among the audience present. 

At the close of the concert, the Queen spoke 
most kindly to Sir George, and said how much 
she had enjoyed the evening. H.R.H. Princess 
Christian very kindly wrote to him afterwards, 
saying she was sure he would like to know how 
pleased the Queen was with the singing, how 
highly she approved the programme, and especially 
admired Sir George's own two compositions, " The 
Zetland Fishermen," and " Hark ! those voices." 

Soon after this, he wrote his piano gavotte, " A 
la mode ancienne," curiously enough, for a concert 
at Windlesham, Surrey, in which village he spent 
the last years of his life. 

Sir George at this time interested himself much 
in trying to draw the attention of the Deans and 
Chapters to the growing deterioration in the 
style of music introduced into the cathedrals. 
He often used to say of the old Church com- 
posers that "they did not give unto God that 
which cost them nothing ; " they spared neither 
time nor brains to produce the finest music of 
which they were capable ; and he mourned, with 
many friends, that these magnificent and devo- 
tional works should be cast on one side, in many 



244 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

cathedrals, for those of a light, secular style 
resembling the masses used in Roman Catholic 
churches. In 1877 he drew up the following 
letter to the Deans and Canons upon the subject : 

"The Cloisters, Windsor. 

" REVEREND GENTLEMEN, 

" You will, I hope, forgive the liberty I am 
taking in venturing to call your attention to the 
present sad state of things as regards Church 
music in our cathedrals. I do so, in the hope 
that I may be able to stem the torrent of bad 
taste, which is rapidly destroying our ancient and 
glorious style of Church music, and substituting 
for it services and anthems which have little to 
recommend them but novelty. I would plead 
that when so much pains is being taken by all, 
especially the clergy, to have our fine old cathe- 
drals restored to their original beauty, under the 
care of that eminent and conservative architect, 
Sir Gilbert Scott, and others, the music performed 
in them should be in keeping with the grandeur 
of the edifice, and should remind all who hear that 
they are in a sacred building. Now, the good old 
Church music does this, and I feel it a duty to 
raise my voice to try and rescue the grand com- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 245 

positions of our great English Church composers 
from falling into oblivion and neglect ; for, although 
my efforts may fail, I shall have the satisfaction of 
knowing that I have called the attention to this 
subject of those who have the power to remedy 
the evil. It would be unbecoming in me to say 
one word respecting modern Church composers, 
but I am quite satisfied we have men who would 
write good Church music, provided there was any 
appreciation of their efforts. 

" I am, reverend gentlemen, 

" Your obedient servant, 

(Signed) "G. J. ELVEY." 

To this letter the following was added : 
" We, the undersigned, do cordially agree to the 
above, and are glad to co-operate with Sir George 
Elvey in his praiseworthy efforts to improve the 
present prospects of English Cathedral music. 

" FREDERICK G. OUSELEY, BART. 
"ARTHUR SULLIVAN. 

"C. W. CORFE. 

" JAMES TURLE. 

"J. HOPKINS. 

" G. A. MACFARREN. 

" EDWIN GEORGE MONK." 



246 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

The feelings of these eminent musicians on the 
solemnity that there ought to be in Church music 
seem to have been shared by Mendelssohn (whom 
Sir George greatly admired), for he wrote thus : 

" I have found, to my astonishment, that the 
Catholics, who have had music in their churches 
for several centuries, and sing a musical mass 
every Sunday, if possible, in their principal 
churches, do not, to this day, possess one which 
can be considered even tolerably good, or, in fact, 
which is not actually distasteful and operatic. This 
is the case from Pergolese and Durante, who intro- 
duce the most laughable little trills into their Glorias, 
down to the opera finales of the present day. 

"Were I a Catholic, I would set to work at a 
mass this very evening, and, whatever it might 
turn out, it would, at all events, be the only mass 
written with a constant remembrance of its sacred 
purpose ! " 

In connection with the letter to the Deans, etc., 
Sir George wrote the following to a friend : 

"Windsor, 

"March 2ofh, 1877. 
" MY DEAR .... 

" I was induced to write my letter on the 
present state of Church music by hearing of 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 247 

several cathedrals where Gibbons in F was un- 
known ! Surely this is enough to move the wrath 
of anyone who venerates what is good in eccle- 
siastical music. As far as my own judgment 
goes, I think the day is not far distant when 
Boyce's three volumes will become ' a sealed book 
and a dead letter.' 

" I am glad that in your cathedral the old 
masters are fully represented; it is not so in many. 
I by no means wish to exclude modern music; 
very much of late years has been written which 
I always play at St. George's with great pleasure. 
I am pressed, as you doubtless are, to play many 
things contrary to my taste and judgment, but 
even this I do not rebel against, so long as the 
REAL good style is not utterly neglected. . . . Good 
modern services are few and far between." 

Sir George was much delighted with a speech 
made a few years before by Dr. Arnold of Win- 
chester, respecting the great deterioration of 
modern hymn-tunes at the Church Congress at 
Bath, and he wrote thus at the time : 

" I quite agree with you about modern hymn- 
tunes ; they, in many instances, resemble German 
part-songs, a very poor style of vocal writing at 



248 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

the best, and a very long way behind our good 
old English glees. I consider your protest a very 
courageous one, and I hope it will produce a good 
effect; but those who are bold enough to tell the 
truth must, I expect, be prepared for a little rough 
treatment; but never mind this, you have with 
you the sympathy and support of all right-minded 
people, and especially of, 

"Yours very truly, 

(Signed) " G. J. ELVEY." 

Mr. Curwen says : 

" I feel that the conservative element in English 
musical feeling is of great value. It prevents us 
catching the craze of the hour, and drifting here, 
there, and everywhere ; and the influence of men 
like Sir George Elvey, exerted through his 
choristers and pupils, is of immense value in 
maintaining the solidity and caution of our 
musical judgments." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 249 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

THE summer and autumn of 1878 were a very 
sad time. First, in June, came the funeral 
of the King of Hanover, and later in the year 
the death of H.R.H. Princess Alice, on Decem- 
ber 1 4th. On the i8th Sir George played at 
the memorial service held in the private chapel 
on the day of her funeral. 

For this he wrote " The Souls of the Righteous" 
that lovely, solemn, and touching anthem which 
has since been performed at his own funeral, which 
took place on the anniversary of Princess Alice's 
death. 

During the greater part of this year Sir George's 
wife had been ailing, and in the summer he went 
with her for a few weeks to H arrogate, hoping 
that the waters there would restore her to health. 
Unfortunately, however, the change did not effect 
the good that was anticipated, and week by week, 
and month by month, the terrible illness increased 



250 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

which culminated in her death early in January of 

1879. 

She bore her suffering with much fortitude, but 
it was a great trial for those who loved her to 
witness the fearful agony she often endured. 

The March following her death saw another 
royal ceremonial in Windsor of a very different 
character to the last, for now everything was full 
of brightness and life in preparation for the 
marriage of the Duke of Connaught to the 
Princess Louise Margaret of Prussia. 

So strangely do joy and sorrow intermingle 
in this life ! 

The wedding was a very brilliant scene, and 
the arrangements were carried out with almost, or 
quite, as much splendour as those for the marriage 
of the Prince of Wales had been. 

The scene in the Chapel was a magnificent one ; 
the scarlet coats of the officers and military 
knights lining either side of the carpet from the 
screen to the altar-rails ; the splendid court 
dresses of the ladies glistening with diamonds ; 
all combined to form a picture to which the noble 
architecture of the glorious old Chapel was a fitting 
framework. 

Again Sir George had to rouse himself from his 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 251 

own sorrows to prepare and arrange the music for 
this grand occasion. 

So thoroughly successful were his untiring exer- 
tions, and so satisfied was the Queen with the 
result, that she sent him a very handsome cup as 
a memento. 

During the summer he spent some weeks in 
Scotland, staying not far from Edinburgh, and 
making various pleasant excursions in the neigh- 
bourhood. 

On his way back he visited Mr. and Mrs. John- 
son, at Brocklesby Rectory, and opened their new 
organ, which had been built under his direction. 
Here he was ever an eagerly-welcomed guest. 
Mrs. Johnson was an old pupil of his, and she and 
her husband both greatly admired and esteemed 
his beautiful Christian character. 

Later still, he went for a few days to visit once 
again the scenes of his childhood at Canterbury. 
This was a painful pleasure, for all the friends that 
he knew there in his early days, except Dr. Long 
hurst, the present organist, had passed away. 

This summer Sir George had rather a longer 
holiday, as the Chapel was closed for cleaning. . 

But work, hard and unceasing, is always the best 
remedy for sorrow, and he really felt it a relief 



252 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

when the Chapel was re-opened, and he was back 
again at his post. 

He loved his organ, and he loved the Chapel, 
having watched it gradually emerge from the 
whitewash and destruction of Cromwell, under 
skilful hands, to its former stately grandeur. 
Truly, 

" A noble fane .... 
A regal temple, where to worship Him, 
Before Whom all the kings of earth bow down." 

How different now to when he, as Mr. Elvey, 
was first introduced to it, few, indeed, remain to 
tell! Hard it is to realize that the beauties of 
" fretted roof," and walls and pillars " enriched 
with sculptured work and tracery of gold," were 
veiled from sight by a thick covering of lime and 
dust. Even the oak stalls were so encrusted with 
varnish and dirt, that the exquisite carving was 
almost hidden from view ; and it was a work of 
no little patience and trouble to cleanse and re- 
store them to their present condition. 

The dangerous state in which the stonework of 
the west window had been for a long time, and the 
great probability that the whole of the mullions, 
and very likely part of the gable above might sud- 
denly fall, induced the Chapter, in October, 1842, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 253 

to rebuild it, preserving accurately all its original 
form and dimension. 

The glass occupying the openings was of the 
time of King Henry VI L, and consisted partly of 
fifty-nine figures of saints, prophets, kings, and 
knights, all of which had been removed to this 
window from various parts of the Chapel in 1774, 
by Dr. Lockman, who had placed the figures on 
a ground of clear white glass. 

The remaining openings were filled by reticu- 
lated patterns in common and glaring colours, 
placed also on clear glass. 

After the restoration of the stonework the plain 
ground of white glass was removed and super- 
seded by ancient diaper patterns in a quiet tone of 
drab. Ten more of the ancient figures still re- 
mained in the stalls of the Chapter; with these, 
and by the addition of six new effigies, the glaziers' 
patterns were excluded, and every opening was 
occupied by a whole-length figure. 

Rich canopies, columns, and bases were added 
to them, and on a scroll which now runs through 
the whole of the bases of the lowest compartments, 
is inscribed the prayer, peculiar to the service at 
St. George's : 

" God save our Gracious Sovereign, and all the 



254 LI FE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

companions of the Most Honourable and Noble 
Order of the Garter." 

This window was always an immense pleasure 
to Sir George, who had seen its restoration. 
Day after day he would, in the afternoon, watch 
from the organ-loft, with intense delight, its ex- 
quisite appearance when lit up by the setting 
sun. 

For some time after he went to Windsor, two 
old helmets were lying about in the Dean's garden 
quite uncared-for and unthought-of, until one 
morning a man came down from London to see 
the Dean about his account for work done for the 
Chapter. This account was considered too heavy, 
but the man was very unwilling to reduce it, until 
suddenly remembering the helmets he had spied 
outside, he said : " Well, Mr. Dean, if you will 
give me those two helmets, I will accept the sum 
you propose." Quite pleased to be rid of these 
encumbrances from his garden, the man's account 
was promptly settled by the Dean on these terms, 
and the helmets ere long were transferred to their 
new home in the window of an old curiosity shop 
in London. 

But they were not to rest there long, for the 
Garter King-at-Arms, having spied these trophies, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 255 

made anxious inquiries from whence they had 
come, and when the story of their origin was un- 
folded, he went in a towering rage to Windsor, 
and ordered the Dean and Canons to bring them 
back. 

The railway not then being open, a carriage and 
four was at once procured, and in this one of the 
Canons immediately drove to London, and in due 
time returned with the spoils, which were promptly 
returned to the Chapel, from whence they had 
originally been abstracted, but not even then were 
they placed in their legitimate places. 

Some years after, during the restoration of the 
Chapel, these poor helmets were again turned out, 
and were this time thrown into the Crypt. From 
thence they were once more rescued, this time by 
Dr. Elvey, who with much trouble discovered at 
last to whom they belonged ; by his efforts they 
were placed near the tombs of the kings whose 
heads they had adorned. 

Not many days before his death, when talking 
of St. George's, he said that he believed it was at 
his suggestion that the Knights of the Garter had 
been asked to subscribe to refill the niches outside 
with figures, which was the last important restora- 
tion executed. 



256 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

For years he had wished to have a good music- 
room in Windsor, as the Town Hall was such an 
unsatisfactory place for concerts, and St. Mark's 
School, which, by the kindness of the Rev. Stephen 
Hawtrey, had been for the last few years lent for 
concerts, was not always available. 

Therefore it was with no little pleasure that he 
welcomed the completion of the Albert Institute, 
and in April, 1880, gladly again lent his aid in 
arranging the music for the opening ceremony, 
which was performed by H.R.H. the Prince 
of Wales. For it he specially composed " Let 
us now praise famous men," scored for a full 
band. 

Some months later he went down to Brighton 
to act as umpire at a military band competition 
held in the Pavilion. The last important event in 
which he took part, just before he left Windsor, 
was the marriage of the Duke of Albany to 
Princess Helen of Waldeck, which took place at 
St. Georges Chapel on May 6th, 1882. The 
arrangements of the musical portion of this service, 
under his direction, gave such satisfaction to H.M. 
the Queen that she presented him with a very 
handsome silver claret jug. 

Thus practically closed the public life of one of 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 257 

the greatest geniuses of the present century, a man 
"who has left his mark on English cathedral 
music," and withal one of the most modest and 
simple-minded men that ever lived. 

He was rarely free from an active interest 
in some one or other, who, through misfor- 
tunes of various kinds, had been unsuccessful in 
the battle of life, and he took a genuine pleasure, 
being singularly free from jealousy of any kind, in 
lending a helping hand that other members of his 
profession might climb a rung higher on the ladder 
to fame, although this would often put him to a 
great deal of trouble and even personal incon- 
venience. 

That there are some who are free to admit their 
obligations to him, the following extracts from 
letters will show : 

" I have been told to-day, that you lost your dear 
husband, and I my dear master, benefactor, and 
friend, yesterday. . . . Many will call his name 
blessed, and revere his memory. ... If I am 
mentioned in your book, I should wish my immense 
obligations to Sir George to be stated in the most 
emphatic manner. I believe that only in the next 
world will all his good works come to light. He 
was one who did not let his left hand know the 

s 



258 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

good his right hand did. ' His works do follow 

him/ 

" Yours truly, 

"E. H. THORNE." 

" Such of his pupils as knew him best must all 
share your grief, in the knowledge that they have 
lost a friend whose place in their affection no one 
else can fill. ... He was not only my master, 
but during all the years I was with him, as chorister, 
articled pupil, or assistant, he took a father's inte- 
rest in my welfare, nor has his kindness diminished 
to this day. . . 

" CHARLES HANCOCK." 

" I have lost a friend indeed, for he has been a 
father to me, one who always sympathized with 
me in all my troubles and difficulties, and was ever 
ready to give advice in time of need. 

" His death has caused a void that can never be 
refilled. . . . 

" What he did for me in that terrible calamity 
that befell me some years ago, you very well know. 
Had it not been for his encouraging letters and 
God's providence, I should surely have been crushed 
and ruined, not only temporally, but eternally. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 259 

"When I look back through the past years, I 
can see him again a man whose sole aim in life 
was to do his duty, however disagreeable, in his 
calling, and as far as in him lay, to live peaceably 
with all men. His Christian belief was 'deeds,' 
and many were they that no one knew but him- 
self, for he rarely let his right hand know what his 
left hand did. And now let us look at him in his 
resting-place. Yes, after a busy and active life, of 
the trials and troubles of which (speaking reve- 
rently) he had his share, he is now at rest, and 
gone to learn that heavenly song, the earthly part 
of which he spent so many years in cultivating ; 
and has left us to mourn, not for him, but the 
great vacancy he has left in that circle of true 
friends which, as we grow older, appears to con- 
tract so rapidly. 

" I . . . add my mite of admiration of his 
noble character, and a last tribute of esteem and 
love for my never-to-be-forgotten dearest friend 
and master. 

" GEORGE PEARSON." 
***** 

The Rev. J. R. Matthews thus writes of him 
after his death : 

"His was a character for which everyone must 



260 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

feel the greatest admiration no vanity or egotism, 
no insincerity, no humbug of any kind, but a real 
straight, honest, manly John Bull. 

" On his resigning his position at St. George's I 
wrote to him, and suggested to him the thought 
of the many souls who for ages to come will pour 
forth their praises, and send up their prayers to 
God, in the beautiful strains he was inspired to 
compose. That he now rests in peace who can 
doubt ? May I be permitted to share his happy 
lot!" 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 261 



CHAPTER XXX. 

SIR GEORGE had been a widower for about 
three and a half years. He felt his loneliness 
so keenly, being naturally dependent upon com- 
panionship and sympathy, that it seriously affected 
his health ; and the continual strain incidental to his 
position acting on a temperament highly-strung 
and sensitive in the extreme made his friends 
fearful for his life, and many of them predicted that 
he would not live two years. 

However, acting on good advice, he summoned 
up courage to try and win for himself his old pupil 
and friend, Miss Mary Savory, of Buckhurst Park, 
with the result that on June 2oth he was most happily 
united to one with whom he spent eleven and a 
half years of almost perfect happiness, only marred 
by external worries over which he had no control. 
He then retired from his post at Windsor, and 
his reasons for resigning are well known to those 
who created them, and must, or at least should, fill 



262 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

them with lifelong pain and remorse. Never did 
a man more entirely throw his whole life and 
energy into his work, or more conscientiously 
strive, not only to do his duty, but without grudge 
or stint to serve everyone around him, and words 
fail to express the cruel treatment and base in- 
gratitude of which he was the victim. 

Such was the reward of a life's faithful service ! 
This must ever be a blot on the annals of 
Windsor. But his heart was surely fixed on the 
Rock of Ages, and he felt that it is enough for the 
servant that he be as his Master, who endured 
" such contradiction of sinners against himself/' 
and he sought and found grace from above to 
bear, in the most saintly manner, his bitter trials. 
Not a murmur, not one unkind word he permitted 
to escape his lips. 

Occasionally, while thinking of the past, in his 
now happy home, he would give a sigh of sadness 
when he thought of those who, ever ready to 
accept his help in endless ways, now, when he was 
no longer able to exert himself so much/had for- 
gotten their old friend. It would flash across his 
mind how true the proverb, " Out of sight, out of 
mind," but it was only a passing shadow, for he 
loved better to dwell on how wonderfully and 




SIR GEORGE ELVEY AT THE ORGAN 
EVENING SERVICE AT WINDSOR 



. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 263 

mercifully God had watched over and dealt with 
him all his life. 

That his upright and consistent conduct, and 
his earnest, persevering work during his long 
tenure of office were generally appreciated, will be 
seen by the following passages, taken from various 
sources after his death : 

" The death of Sir George Elvey on Saturday 
morning removes from the musical profession a 
talented organist, a fluent writer of refined com- 
positions of an ecclesiastical character, a kind 
teacher, and a thorough gentleman. 

" Numerous anthems and hymn-tunes were the 
products of his pen, by which his name will long 
live in the annals of Church music. 

***** 

" Sir George personally was a most charming 
man, without a shadow of self-assertion, and yet 
full of spirit and anecdote. He was an excellent 
trainer of choirs, and understood the development 
of boys' voices more thoroughly than any of his con- 
temporaries. . . . He was intolerant of slovenly 
performances, and untiring in his efforts to pro- 
mote efficiency. His occupancy of the post of 
organist to the Chapel Royal was a memorable one. 



264 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" He was a very fine organ-player, and his name 
will live through his beautiful anthems, which are 
constantly sung in every cathedral in England. 

" The music and singing at St. George's were 
always excellent during his long term of office. 

* * * # * 

"Sir George Elvey, who has done such 
masterly work for Church music amongst us, 
leaving his name upon the cathedral music of the 
time, died on Saturday last. He was a masterly 
organ-player, and may be said to have founded a 
school of organ-playing of his own. 

" He was appointed organist of St. George's 
Chapel in 1835, anc * two years afterwards became 
organist to the Queen. He was a great favourite 
with ;the royal family, particularly with Prince 
Albert, and was a frequent guest at both Osborne 
and Windsor. 

* * * * * 

"He was a musician, noted for his reticence 
and modesty, no less than his solid gifts. 
***** 

" As as accompanist on the organ he was with- 
out a rival.'* 

* * * * * 

A gentleman now residing in Windsor speaks 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 265 

thus of the impression made upon him many years 
ago by Sir George's organ-playing : 

" Having heard of his fame I took the oppor- 
tunity of attending the service at St. George's 
Chapel on the afternoon of September loth, I847. 1 
I am never likely to forget the impression made 
by Dr. Elvey in his accompaniment of the 
78th Psalm. The organ upon which he then 
played was a considerably smaller affair than the 
experts amongst organists of the present day will 
put up with. Nevertheless, the effects produced 
in that truly dramatic Psalm I have never heard 
equalled, nor do I think I am now likely again to 
hear it. 

"As a Londoner I took every opportunity of 
visiting Windsor with my family in holiday 
seasons, and eventually I settled down as a 
Windsor resident in 1883, for the purpose of 
enjoying a service that for thirty-six years I had 
never failed to extol amongst friends, clerical and 
musical, as the best in all England. I was by no 
means happy at finding the bird of harmony had 
flown ! 

1 "I shall never forget the date," said he, and named it 
instantly, without reference to any note, and without being fore- 
warned that the subject might be introduced. 



266 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" On many occasions, when at Windsor, I had 
been tempted to seek an introduction to Sir 
George, and might easily have obtained one 
through friends, but I esteemed him too much to 
encroach upon that dignified demeanour which 
became him so well, without giving the least 
suspicion of arrogance. 

" To the last I have been gratified at witnessing 
the annual ovation accorded him by his old friends 
at Windsor at the yearly concert given by the 
gentlemen of the St. George's Chapel choir. I little 
thought on October 26th, 1893, that I then saw 
him for the last time." 

Mr. Robert Lyttleton says : "Sir George in his 
accompanying of the Psalms has never to my mind 
been surpassed, and no one has excelled him as a 
chant composer." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 267 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

RENEWED happiness, combined with the 
fine air of South Ascot, where he had taken 
a house, soon restored him to better health than he 
had enjoyed for very many years, and with the re- 
turn of this, and the cessation from the work and 
excitement of his profession, the nervousness and 
depression from which he had suffered so much to 
a great extent disappeared. 

This was much noticed by his friends, and one 
of his former pupils who came to see him writes 
thus: 

"It is very gratifying to know that with the 
cessation of professional responsibilities he has to 
a great extent lost his excessive nervousness, and 
now enjoys a peaceful and happy life in com- 
fortable retirement." 

Although at one time he had fully made up his 
mind that if his life were spared he should like to 
celebrate his jubilee at St. George's before retir- 



268 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

ing, yet the relief of being perfectly free after so 
many years of trammel was such that he was 
never heard to lament the step he had taken in 
resigning his post. 

When he first contemplated leaving Windsor 
he feared that time would hang heavily on his 
hands, but this was in reality never the case, for 
he revelled in the country, and day by day, care- 
less of weather, might be seen in the grounds 
surrounding his house superintending various 
operations connected with laying out the garden 
draining, etc. When tired of this he would amuse 
himself by revising his music, looking over various 
pieces sent to him by friends eager for his assis- 
tance (which his kindly heart never permitted him 
to refuse). Thus, we find him writing to a young 
friend : 

" I have looked over your music. . . . The 
anthem is too short, and in future attempts avoid 
the D. C. ; if a part is to be repeated, let it be done 
with some change of harmony, etc. See Mendels- 
sohn's melody in the fourth book of the ' Lieder.' 
Have you studied fugue? If you have, when 
you write another anthem or organ-piece give 
some proof of it. I will at all times look over 
anything you send me, and pray do not be dis- 






SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 269 

couraged ; you can and will, I have no doubt, send 
me something better next time." 

As the examinations came round at the various 
colleges, he would busy himself with the exami- 
nation papers. 

Later in the day^ne would drive to Buckhurst, 
the home of Lady Elvey's mother, where, with 
her, he spent many happy hours each week cheer- 
ing Mrs. Savory in her widowhood, j She was 
very fond of him, and used to say she had never 
met anyone with such a guileless childlike spirit. 
She greatly enjoyed a chat with him concerning 
the many scenes and stately ceremonials he had 
witnessed in Windsor, but often the conversation 
would glide to higher themes, connected with 
eternity, on which both loved to dwell. 

Another great delight to her, was to induce him 
to play to her, for Sir George's piano-playing was, 
as has been said of his accompanying, "A thing 
to hear and not forget." His touch was simply 
exquisite, and in his hands the instrument truly 
spoke. 

Frequently would he sit down, at the urgent 
request of his friends, and enchant his hearers with 
his rendering of some of Mendelssohn's Lieder, 
selections from Beethoven or Corelli, or a succes- 



270 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

sion of national airs arranged and woven together 
as he alone could do it. 

He was also a very fine violin-player, and used 
to play with Lady Elvey all Beethoven's sonatas ; 
most, if not all, of Mozart ; in fact, nearly all the 
duets that they could procure for violin and piano. 
He was very fond of playing quartettes, and on 
one of these occasions Mr. Henry Blagrove ex- 
pressed his great admiration of his playing, while 
Mr. J. S. Liddle, another accomplished violinist, 
writes of it as follows : 

" Though I had often seen Sir George before, 
the first time I was introduced to him was in 1872, 
at a quartette meeting held at the house of the 
Rev. W. H. Bliss in the Cloisters. The parts of 
the Beethoven Op. 18, No. i, were given me for 
distribution, and I naturally handed Sir George 
the first fiddle. He played through the first 
movement in excellent style, apparently without 
noticing what his part was. But at the end of it 
he turned to me saying, ' Come, young gentleman, 
none of your tricks on travellers ; hand me up that 
second fiddle part.' 

" Few know how very good a player he really 
was. The main public use to which he put his 
playing, was in alternately conducting and leading, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 271 

from the conductor's desk, at the Windsor Choral 
Society's concerts, a method which entailed a 
somewhat rough-and-ready style. But in a room, 
where I have more than once had the honour of 
accompanying him, his style was most refined, 
and his intonation of a fascinating degree of 
delicacy rarely heard in these days of all-prevailing 
equal temperament. 

" The study of the violin was part of the course 
he gave all his articled pupils, one of whom I was 
lucky enough to become, although, as a rule, he 
only took boys from his own choir. He gave 
no regular lessons to us, but we could always have 
one by asking for it, and I still feel with gratitude 
the fruits of his sound and careful instruction in 
pianoforte-playing. He was extremely particular 
about the position of the hands, and most scrupu- 
lous as regards systematic fingering. It was 
probably this which gave his own playing its 
spotless correctness. One listened to him twice a 
day on the organ, sometimes for many weeks, 
without hearing a suspicion of a wrong note." 

The one sport to which Sir George had always 
lent himself, when his professional engagements 
would admit, was an afternoon or evening spent 
in fishing, and many were the visits made, during 



272 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

the summer, with one of his friends or pupils, to 
Black Pots, Staines, Egham, Datchet, and Shep- 
perton, from which places he generally returned 
well laden with spoil. 

While following this favourite pastime as a 
boy, he once narrowly escaped being drowned. 
He had been fishing from a wall by the riverside, 
but not being very successful, he climbed down 
on to some scaffold-boards by the side of the 
water. One of these, being insecurely fixed, gave 
a sudden jerk, and the ill-fated young fisherman 
was precipitated head foremost into the river, being 
subsequently rescued in a drowning condition. 

Sometimes, while at Buckhurst, in later years, 
when mother and daughter, who were wrapped up 
in one another, were chatting happily together, Sir 
George would wander down to the lake with his 
rod, and enjoy an hour's fishing, a pastime for 
which he never lost his affection. 

On one occasion, fishing in a friend's lake, he 
caught a fine jack, which he safely landed, and, 
resuming his sport, congratulated himself on the 
prize he had secured. 

Looking round shortly afterwards, he observed 
a pig quietly demolishing the spoil ! 

On another expedition he caught a pike which 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 273 

scaled nearly ten pounds. Of this fine specimen 
he was very proud, and it now reposes, stuffed, in 
a glass case in the hall at Windlesham. 

During the summer of 1882 Sir George and 
his wife went to Scarborough, and thence to 
Brocklesby, the home of Lady Elvey's favourite 
sister a trip that Sir George always alluded to 
as a most enjoyable one. His visits to Brocklesby, 
throughout these later years, were among his 
greatest pleasures. He much enjoyed the society 
of his brother-in-law, and he would frequently 
wander down to the little clematis-covered cottage 
at the end of the drive, where Mr. Johnson's father 
lived in retirement, and patiently help the old man 
of ninety-two to master the ^difficulties of a 
harmonium, the great solace of his blindness. 

It was always a pleasure to him to aid anyone 
who needed assistance, and visitors to his home in 
later years love to recall the kind offers to hear 
them play, and the patience shown, and encourage- 
ment ungrudgingly given, when their performances 
must have tortured his keenly-sensitive ear. 

On Sundays, during his visits to Brocklesby, he 
always played the service in the pretty little 
church, to the great delight of the villagers ; and 
he would give hints and assist in the training of 

T 



274 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

the choir. The men and boys composing it were 
an endless source of amusement to him. Often he 
would laugh at the recollection, as memory painted 
him their picture : standing at attention, with words 
grasped in one hand, and music in the other. 

The paper must needs have exerted some 
magic spell, for none among them could read a 
note. One, in particular, he always inquired for 
as " my ancient friend." This man's qualifications 
for his post were undiscovered he certainly did 
not possess the slightest ear for music. 

(In after years the choir greatly improved, and 
Sir George used frequently to express his appro- 
bation of their work. Indeed, the last time he 
was there, in June, 1893, he was delighted at the 
progress they had made, and especially admired 
the chanting of the Psalms, which they did most 
intelligently from his brother's Psalter. He 
specially wrote an anthem for this choir to sing at 
a harvest festival.) 

The long drives in the beautiful park surround- 
ing Brocklesby Hall, Lord Yarborough's country 
home, added much to the enjoyment of these visits. 
Many pleasant afternoons were spent in this way, 
Lady Elvey driving her husband in a little carriage 
drawn by an old grey pony, which animal had a 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 275 

decided will of his own, and one method alone was 
successful in inducing him to proceed beyond a 
walk, viz., shouting at him ! 

Sir George evidently retained a vivid recollec- 
tion of his efforts in this direction, for he wrote, 
later on, in fun, for Lady Elvey, a round to the 
words, " Gee-up, Dobbin, gee-up and gee- whoa ! " 

Soon after his return from Lincolnshire he was 
invited by Sir Joseph Savory to the sheriffs' 
banquet, and, as winter drew on, he set to work 
to prepare a part-song in honour of Lord 
Wolseley's return from Egypt the words being 
supplied by Lady Elvey. 

At the latter end of the autumn, Mr. (now Sir 
Walter) Parratt, his successor at St. George's, 
begged him to come over and play the farewell 
services on his " dear old organ " before it was 
altered. This he did, and gave for the last time 
his splendid rendering of his brother's Service in 
A, and Boyce's anthem, " Oh, where shall wisdom 
be found ? " 

Not long after he left Windsor, he prepared, at 
Mr. Parratt's request, chants for a month's services, 
with a chant arranged for every psalm. This was 
a work involving no little labour, and he bestowed 
almost endless time and attention on it ; it was 



276 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

the third month of chants that he had arranged, 
two having been prepared for his own use at St. 
George's. 

The first month's were special favourites, and 
not long since, among other applications for a 
copy, Sir George received one from Copenhagen. 

In June, 1883, a little son was born to him, who 
later on was christened by the names George 
Frederic Handel. 

Always fond of children, and possessing in an 
unusual degree the power of attracting them to 
him, and sympathizing with and amusing them, it 
was a great delight to him to have a child once 
more about the house ; and " the little chap," as 
he always called him, grew up with a reverence 
for, and devotion to his father seldom equalled. 

Just at this time Sir George was presented with 
his portrait, which had been painted by Mr. Val 
Prinsep, R.A., at a concert of the Windsor and 
Eton Madrigal Society, the presentation being 
made by H.R.H. Princess Christian. 

When the picture came home, Handel, though 
only five months old, regarded it with intense inte- 
rest and no little astonishment, gazing first at his 
father, and then at the portrait. Sir George often 
alluded to the circumstance with great amusement. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 277 

The following extracts from letters will show 
the delight he took in his little son : 

" Baby is well, and very good and happy ; his 
little tongue goes on from morning till night, and 
he has a way now of hanging upon his last word, 
which has a very comical effect. He called my 
attention to a cow, drinking wate r in Bristow's 
picture in the dining-room. I had a rare game of 
romps with him this morning in his bed. I am 
glad to hear your dear mother is better, so I shall 
hope to find her pretty well when I come (D.V.) 
to-morrow." 



" I went in the brougham yesterday, and took 
Baby with me. I had him alone, and he was very 

good indeed. I called upon Mrs. . Baby 

went into the house with me, and behaved himself 

like a gentleman. Mr. showed him some 

things, with which he was much amused, particu- 
larly with a lady riding on a donkey, and he 
enlightened all present with his explanations of it. 
He is very happy, and talks incessantly. He sat 
on my knee last evening, and explained all the 
pictures in the little fat book you had with him on 
Monday evening." 



278 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

At this time Handel was not quite two years of 

age. 

As he grew older it was an increasing pleasure 
to his father to have him with him for a walk or 
drive, and it was a pretty sight to see the two 
together. When, on the rare occasions that Lady 
Elvey was away for several hours, she would ask 
the child to look after Sir George during her 
absence, Handel would fulfil his mission to the 
letter. 

Leaving soldiers, bricks, and toys, of which he 
had a thorough child's love, he would spend hours 
together, sitting opposite his father, trying to talk 
on subjects that he thought would amuse and 
please him. 

The big eyes would grow wide with interest, 
and the forehead pucker with endeavours to under- 
stand, as his father, forgetful for a moment in the 
earnestness of his listener, of the little child who 
was his companion, would launch forth into some 
pet topic concerning politics, music, or whatever 
might be uppermost in his mind. 

His little son's patience never failed, though 
sometimes a deep sigh or a rather sleepy, " Yes, 
Dadda," unconsciously showed his weariness. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 279 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

NOT long after Sir George took up his 
residence at La Tour, South Ascot, ever 
anxious to serve his Master, he willingly offered 
help in training the choir and playing the services 
at a little iron mission church, newly erected, a 
few minutes' walk below his house, in a district 
of Ascot called the Bog. 

The place was a wild one, originally the home 
of highwaymen, who, in the old days, plied a 
thriving trade on the main road between London 
and Exeter. By degrees they settled down, and 
became to some extent civilized. 

Traces of their wild origin still lingered, how- 
ever, in the younger generation, and the choir- 
boys proved rough and untameable in the extreme, 
needing all the patience and kindliness of Sir 
George to reduce them to some form of order. 

On one occasion, at least, these turbulent spirits 
ranged themselves beside the roadway, and with 
a volley of stones saluted their teacher on his way 



28o LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

home. Another time, a lad lifted up his hand to 
strike him, all the latent passion roused by a re- 
proof which one had only to know Sir George to 
be sure must have been richly merited, and even 
then gently and patiently given. 

When it became known that he was going to 
undertake the music at the Bog Church several 
men appeared, expressing a wish to join the 
choir. 

After the work for Sunday had been practised, 
as was usual, on that night, Sir George, having 
dismissed the boys, said he should like to try the 
men's voices. He tried them one by one with the 
scale. The first began with such vigour that Sir 
George nearly jumped off the stool, exclaiming 
with surprise, " My conscience, what a shot out of 
a shovel !" 

For these services he wrote three easy anthems ; 
one for Easter, " If we believe that Jesus died ; " 
and two others, unpublished. Of these, one is, 
" O praise God in His holiness," and the other, 
for Christmas, "While shepherds watched their 
flocks by night." In preparing the choir with 
these he spared neither pains nor trouble in order 
to make the performance as perfect as the some- 
what raw material at his disposal admitted of. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 281 

In the early years of the church's existence, a 
harmonium led the services, and Sir George would 
call attention in a would-be mournful tone to 
what he had come to ! 

Worse still, in damp weather (as the little room 
stood low, with a steep hillock on one side, a state 
of dampness was not infrequent) the harmonium 
has been known to fail, but Sir George, not to be 
daunted by adverse circumstances, would send 
home for his violin, and the hymns would go with 
their accustomed vigour. The harmonium was 
subsequently replaced by an organ, presented by 
Sir George. 

It was a grand sight to see the silver-haired 
veteran, the first organist of his day, after years of 
service in one of the noblest churches of our land, 
for love of the Master whom he served, conduct- 
ing a service, and filling a post many would have 
scorned to occupy. 

Twice on Sunday, in sunshine or rain, heat or 
cold, he never missed going to the little church to 
fulfil his labour of love, and many years he regu- 
larly attended the week-night choir practice. His 
pupil, Mr. E. H. Thorne, writes thus of the simple 
and touching little service : " I was much struck, a 
year or two since, when hearing him accompany a 



282 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

service in an iron church at Ascot, by the appro- 
priateness of his accompaniments to the hymns, and 
by a charm in his playing peculiarly his own. 
Each hymn had its own proper tempo and 
expression." 

One of his old boys from St. George's, William 
Amess, was ever very active in assisting him with 
the choir, and since Sir George's age prevented 
his attendance at the little church he has filled the 
place of his beloved master. 

For several years Lady Elvey carried on a 
Band of Hope for the Bog children. In this Sir 
George took considerable interest, writing new 
tunes when those in the Services of Song proved 
too difficult, and himself coming down to assist in 
teaching the children. 

At one of their little concerts a girl of about 
sixteen was to sing " Jock o' Hazeldean/' and Sir 
George was kindly rehearsing it with her. 

This being one of her earliest attempts at solo- 
singing, she was naturally somewhat nervous at 
performing before so great a musician, and did not 
do the song or herself justice, for Sir George 
remarked, with his usual amusing manner, " Come ! 
let us have it a little better than that ; it is like 
a yard of pump water." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 283 

This roused her to more energy, and taking 
care to profit by his instruction, she felt well 
rewarded for the momentary mortification his 
remark had caused, by the ready approval he 
accorded her on the evening of the performance. 



2 8 4 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

AFTER his retirement from Windsor it was 
his custom to gather round him once a year 
the gentlemen of the St. George's choir. 

This was to him quite a red-letter day, for they 
all united in efforts to give him pleasure, by pre- 
paring to perform as much old and favourite music 
as a long evening would admit of. None who saw 
him on these occasions can ever forget the radiant 
expression on his face as he sat at his dining-table, 
entertaining his guests with stories from an appa- 
rently exhaustless fund, and endeavouring to set 
both old and new-comers completely at their ease, 
and, without a thought for himself, straining every 
nerve to make the evening an enjoyable one 
to all. 

The crowning pleasure, after dinner, before 
lighter music commenced, was to hear the grand 
strains of " Non nobis Domine," an old grace by 
Byrde, composed about 1590. On this piece Sir 
George counted for days beforehand; and once, 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 285 

when Mr. Hunt asked him if they should sing it, 
he replied quickly, " Oh ! yes, by all means ; I was 
singing it all day yesterday in anticipation." 

Sir George was a most kind-hearted hospitable 
man, and none ever entered his doors without a 
welcome. Although so nervous and retiring in 
public as sometimes to unfavourably impress 
casual observers, yet in his own home his genial 
nature had free play, and he shone greatly as one 
of the brightest of hosts. He had plenty of anec- 
dote and dry humour for those who were admitted 
into close relations with him; and when visitors 
were staying in the house he would frequently 
keep his guests in fits of laughter. 

Sometimes he would imitate street cries, one of 
his favourites being that of a woman at Canterbury 
who sold watercresses. 

He described her as carrying a very heavy 
basket, and singing the following melody : 



- M J J ^'}^' ' Nj ff7^ 

^w r ap *^ I TV i*^ 



A-ny young spring "yau-ter cre-a-ses,""yau-ter cre-a-ses," Umph. 

accompanying the last note with a sudden drop of 
her burden. 

Another was that of a baker's man at Oxford : 



286 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



One a nen-ny, seven for six-pence,who'll buy my cross buns ! 

Of this man's voice Dr. Stephen Elvey had a 
very high opinion, and used to say that with 
proper training he would have made a Braham. 

A story Sir George took keen delight in re- 
lating was of a Fellow of Magdalen, Oxford, a very 
nervous man, who never got up if the wind was 
in the east. 

This weakness was speedily found out by the 
undergraduates, who were not slow to take advan- 
tage of it ; so, intent on giving him a longer repose 
than usual, they, by some means, secured the vane 
in the east, so that he remained in bed until he 
became suspicious, and found out the trick. 

One more tale of this unfortunate gentleman 
was the following : A lump of butter was placed 
on his wig by these same mischievous spirits at 
dinner-time, which, as the room grew warmer, 
gradually melted and trickling down his face, 
caused him to turn pale with fright. He at once 
had a nurse sent for, and retired to bed. 

The nurse took up her post beside him, but 
finding that he soon dropped into a peaceful 
slumber which seemed likely to continue for some 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 287 

time, she fell to nodding herself. After a while 
the patient awoke, and promptly aroused his atten- 
dant with the cry, uttered in a voice of thunder : 

" Why are you asleep ? don't you know I am 
expecting to die every moment ? " 

Another favourite anecdote referred to a very 
special occasion in a remote country village, when 
an anthem was to be performed by the choir. 

After it had been given out, there was an un- 
accountably long pause, and at length the old clerk 
in despair walked across to the gallery where the 
singers were placed, and asked, in anxious tones, 
and in something more than a whisper, " Coom, 
chaps, bean't ye goin' to sing the ant'em ? " 

In a moment the reply came, audibly enough, 
" Gettin' the bukes, gettin' the bukes." 

Another story of Sir George's refers to an annual 
treat which a gentleman at Windsor was in the 
habit of giving to the stablemen of George III. at 
Christmas time. On these occasions he always 
regaled them with elder wine and biscuits. Upon 
one of these memorable evenings, when they had 
been enjoying themselves for some time, he went 
to see how they were progressing, and inquired 
how they liked the wine. The man addressed 
answered, in broken English (they were mostly 



288 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

Hanoverians), " Verra much, sir ; but 'tis rader too 
strong of de spice." 

"Oh! is it," said the gentleman, " we'll try 
another bottle." 

So saying, he placed a fresh supply upon the 
table and left the room, but returned ere long and 
inquired if the wine was better. 

"Tis verragude, sir; but rader too strong of de 
spice." 

" How very odd," replied the host, at the same 
time pouring out a sip and raising it to his lips. 

Then he exclaimed, with a look of infinite 
disgust, as he put the glass down again : 

" Why, youVe been drinking up all my mush- 
room ketchup ! " 

At a village church a clergyman friend of Sir 
George's had an organ constructed similarly to a 
musical-box, which the clerk had been taught to 
manipulate. Falling ill one Sunday, a member of 
the choir undertook to manage it. There were 
two sets of barrels, one with hymn tunes, the 
other with secular melodies. The clergyman, 
having given out the hymn, the organ at once 
struck up with " Drops o' Brandy," which, in spite 
of many attempts to stop it, it played to the end, 
and after a second's pause started off with another 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 289 

equally secular tune ; until, in despair, the horrified 
churchwardens made their way to the vicar, and 
expostulated with the unhappy choir-man, who 
was helpless to remedy the unfortunate mistake 
he had made. Meanwhile the congregation was 
convulsed with laughter, more especially the 
younger portion of it. At last, in desperation, the 
officials procured four strong men, who carried 
the instrument bodily out of the church, so that 
it might finish its profanity among the tombs. 

It was the custom of the Deans of Windsor, 
prior to Dean Wellesley, to invite the lay-clerks, 
once or twice a year, to dinner. 

On one of these occasions the Dean said to 
Mr. Salmon, " What do you think of my celery ? " 
or, as he pronounced it, " salary." 
" Very good indeed, Mr. Dean." 
" Ah !" said the Dean, " I raise it myself." 
"Well, I wish you'd raise mine, Mr. Dean," 
retorted Salmon. 



u 



29 o LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

DURING these happy years, until the death 
of Mrs. Savory in January, 1887, much of 
Sir George's time was spent, with Lady Elvey, at 
Buckhurst Park, interspersed with visits to the 
Isle of Wight and to Brocklesby. 

While on one of these visits to the sea, Sir 
George wrote thus to a friend : 

" The church we attend here is badly off 
for music, and the organist, who seems to have 
plenty of command of the instrument, cannot play 
a chant or hymn tune properly. He cannot 
keep quiet, but is always trying to embellish the 
music with runs and shakes ; he could not let 
even poor old N are's * Kyrie ' alone yesterday 
morning. 

" The good old style of organ-playing is gone, 
thanks to C. C. instruments. I shall never be a 
convert to modern organs. They are a fearful 
mistake as regards Church music. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 291 

" I mourn over what's happened to my dear old 

friend at St. George's." 

***** 

In 1885, Sir George and Lady Elvey had a 
very pleasant little visit to Mr. Slocock, when Sir 
George went to Newbury to conduct a concert for 
his friend and former pupil, Mr. Liddle, on the 
occasion of the bi-centenary of the birth of Handel 
and Bach. He was received with immense enthu- 
siasm by the largest audience which has ever been 
gathered together at a concert there. The pro- 
gramme included Handel's " Ode on St. Cecilia's 
Day," with a miscellaneous second part. Miss 
Annie Marriott was the soprano, and Mr. T. 
Harpur the solo trumpet. Everything went ex- 
ceedingly well. 

Sir George at the rehearsal stopped to make 
the drummer tune more accurately, his naturally 
sensitive ear for pitch being unable to put up 
with a mere approximation. 

From Newbury they drove to Wallingford, and 
were most kindly entertained by the clergyman 
and his wife. Here, also, Sir George conducted a 
concert for Mr. Liddle, when the " Messiah " was 
performed. On this occasion Harpur was engaged 
as before to play the trumpet, but, for the first 



292 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

time, this splendid performer failed. His death 
took place not long afterwards. 

This year, also, was that of the Handel Fes- 
tival, always of great interest to Sir George. He 
intensely enjoyed playing the violin ; and Lady 
Elvey sung, with other members of the Bach 
Choir, in the chorus. About this time Sir George 
wrote the following interesting article, called forth 
by some remarks in the " Musical Standard." 



" HANDELIAN SO-CALLED PLAGIARISMS, QUOTATIONS 
AND ADOPTIONS. 

" To the Editor of the 'Musical Standard: 

" SIR, 

"As so much has been said and written 
about the so-called plagiarisms of Handel, I think 
the following quotation from Sir Joshua Reynolds's 
* Lectures on Painting ' might be useful. 

" * When Raffaelle borrowed from Masaccio, he 
improved upon his model ; but when he copied 
from the antique (as for the " Sacrifice at Lystra"), 
he took the whole much as it stands in the original. 
His known wealth was so great that he might 
borrow where he pleased without loss of credit. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 293 

The work from which he borrowed was public ; so 
that if he considered it a disgraceful theft, he was 
sure to be detected. But he was well satisfied 
that his character for invention would be little 
affected by such a discovery, nor is it, except in the 
opinion of those who are ignorant of the manner 
in which great works are built.' 

" That Handel took subjects and ideas from 
other composers is an undeniable fact, but most of 
them he greatly improved. In some instances 
he took passages entire and unaltered, and in one 
case a whole movement, the chorus, ' Egypt was 
glad when they departed,' and, according to Dr. 
Crotch, these things should be considered as quota- 
tions from a well-known author, and not as pla- 
giarisms which result from poverty of imagination 
and with the hope of escaping detection. 

" I think we ought to feel grateful to Handel 
for using the fine fugue by Kerl for the chorus 
alluded to; had he not done so, few would have 
ever known it. 

" I cannot think it possible that anyone can 
entertain the opinion that the mighty giant was so 
destitute of inventive power that he was obliged to 
copy the works of other composers. I may add, 
it seems to be regarded by some as a crime, or sign 



294 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

of weakness, his having repeated his own subjects ; 
no one but the giant could have produced two 
such choruses as the ' Hallelujah ' and the ' Horse 
and his rider 7 upon the same theme. 

" Are there no imitators in the present day ? 
No copyists of Mendelssohn, Wagner, etc. ? 

" I am, yours, 

" HANDELIAN." 

In connection with this, the following sentence 
occurs in a letter to a friend : 

" Old Handel will not want a champion as long 
as I am alive." 

May the day never come when Handel lacks a 
champion ! 

An honour it is to be of the number of these, 
when among them are Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, 
Mendelssohn. 

Haydn said, speaking of Handel, " He is the 
father of us all." 

Mozart said, " Handel knows, better than any 
one of us, what is capable of producing a great 
effect. When he chooses he can strike like a 
thunderbolt." 

Beethoven said, " He is the monarch of the 
musical kingdom. He was the greatest composer 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 295 

that ever lived. I would uncover my head and 
kneel before his tomb." 

Mendelssohn said, " Handel's works are treasures 
of sublimity and elevation." 

Surely those who affect to despise Handel will 
not long wish to exclude themselves from the 
company of such an illustrious throng. 

The following extracts from letters, which bear 
date about this period, will show that Sir George 
was not idle. 

" March tfh, 1886. 

JL-/ .Cjx\.x\. ^ ^^^"^^^ 

" I have been asked to arrange my anthem, 
' Praise the Lord/ for instruments, for a choir 
festival at Brecon, and among the list of instru- 
ments I am to write for is the euphonium. I have 
not the least idea what sort of an instrument it is, 
but it is, I believe, used in military bands. What 
I want to know is, whether it plays tenor or bass 
parts, and also, whether I must write for it in the 
proper key, or whether transposition is necessary, 
and, if so, what key I ought to put the instrument 
into ? 

" I do not intend to transpose the whole of my 
anthem for the convenience of Mr. Euphonium ; 



296 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

so, if he cannot play like a good Christian in D, I 
shall dispense with his services. 

# # # # # 

" My compositions are a great trouble to me ! 
and I am bothered with all sorts of questions, 
which I am expected to answer." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 297 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

IN the spring of 1886, Sir George Martin 
Holloway begged Sir George to undertake 
the music for the opening of Holloway College. 
The proposal gave him great pleasure, as, in spite 
of the tremendous amount of work it entailed, he 
was delighted to prepare music once more to be 
performed in the presence of his beloved Queen. 
He not only undertook all the arrangements con- 
nected with the music, but composed and scored 
an " Ode " specially for the occasion. 

On the opening day, after the service in the 
Chapel, when Her Majesty was in the Quadrangle, 
she was heard to ask, " Where is Sir George ? " 
and remarked, when he was pointed out to her 
conducting the band, " Oh ! yes, I see him ; there 
he is, as active as ever." 

London, Reading, and Windsor, all furnished 
contingents for the chorus on this occasion, and 
whilst busily looking about for the various parties 



298 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

to give them instructions, Sir George came upon 
the Windsor group, to whom he said, "And 
where do you gentlemen come from ? " " From 
Windsor, Sir George." "Ah!" said he, "dear 
old Windsor, I need say nothing to you!' 

Perhaps few, except those who have gone 
through it, are aware of the enormous amount of 
trouble it entails to get a satisfactory performance 
in a country place. Hours, and indeed weeks, 
were fully occupied in preparing and copying 
the music for the band. However, all seemed 
thoroughly satisfied with the result ; but many 
sleepless nights testified to the strain felt by the 
veteran conductor. After the performance was 
over, having been without food from 9 a.m. to 
nearly the same hour at night through some 
flaw in the arrangements, which in every other 
respect were so admirable he was seized with 
a most alarming attack of illness, and great fears 
were entertained for his life. However, with 
prompt remedies, he soon rallied. 

In the autumn of this year Sir George rented 
the vicarage of Melton Ross, in North Lincoln- 
shire, about a three miles' drive along the wolds 
from his brother-in-law's parish. The vicar 
thought it would be a great pleasure to his 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 299 

people if Sir George would sometimes preside 
at the organ, and asked him as a favour to do so, 
To this Sir George agreed, and, upon his arrival, 
sent to the schoolmistress, who acted as organist, 
to inquire what music was usually played. This 
lady could not bear the idea of being deposed, and 
would not consent to give up the organ unless she 
received special instructions direct from the vicar; 
so she stuck to her post, and not only played her- 
self, but invited a friend to assist her, to the intense 
annoyance and disappointment of the principal 
members of the congregation. Mr. and Mrs. 
Webb, of Melton Ross, who could not show 
kindness enough to Sir George and Lady Elvey, 
came up and apologized, with not a little disgust, 
at the unseemly conduct of the organist, who, 
needless to relate, after she had been duly repri- 
manded for her conduct, gracefully retired from 
the organ-stool. While in Lincolnshire, Sir 
George always played for the evening service 
at Kirmington, and the simple country-folk would 
gather in the churchyard after service, and listen 
in wonder at the strains he drew from their little 
instrument. 

He alludes to this in the following letter to his 
old pupil, Mr. Hancock : 



300 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

" Melton Ross Vicarage, 

" Barnetby, 

"Aug. 31, 1886. 

" MY DEAR HANCOCK, 

" I have often longed to write to you for 
old acquaintance sake, but did not know your new 
address. Bransom told me what it was once, but 
I managed to forget it. We let our house, and 
have been at the above address since July ist, 
but, according to our present plans, we shall return 
home on September 8th. I hope you are prosper- 
ing at Leicester. It was reported some time ago 
that you were ill, but afterwards, I am glad to 
say, this report was proved to be false. I do not 
know that I have any news to communicate that 
will interest you at all. I have little to do with 
music now, but I play upon a small organ six 
stops when at home, and conduct the services 
at our iron church, about half a mile from our 
house, and during the time I have been here have 
played upon a small organ in Kirmington Church, 
which, you will remember, was built by your 
Leicester man (I forget his name). A nice little 
organ it is, but now the church is shut up for 
repairs, and the services are held in the school- 
room, where I play upon an organ with one stop. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 301 

" So you see what your old friend has come to ! 
I send you a copy of my ode, 1 very broad and 
simple, but it answered the purpose for which 
I composed it. I had rare hard work for the 
occasion, and it was almost too much for me. Do 
you remember my cantata for the Queen's Birth- 
day ? It was done at Windsor for their last 
concert, and I conducted it. We had a fair string 
band, and some wind instruments. I suppose 
this will be my last appearance in the musical 
world. I suppose next year will be a very loyal 
one to all who live to see it. I shall at all times 
be pleased to hear from you. . . . 

" Ever yours sincerely, 

" G. J. ELVEY." 
# # # # # 

The year 1887, which was anticipated with such 
pleasure as that which would see the celebration of 
Her Majesty's Jubilee, opened very sadly. Lady 
Elvey's mother fell asleep in Jesus, early in 
January. 

She truly walked with God, and was a worthy 
daughter of one of whom the poet Wordsworth 
said, "She was a queen among women, one in 
whose presence it was a privilege to sit." 
1 For the opening of Holloway College. 



3 o2 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

This was an intense grief to her daughter and 
to Sir George, as they were both devotedly 
attached to her. He alludes thus to it in a letter 
written at the time : " Lady Elvey lost her mother 
a short time since, and it is a very sad trial to 
both of us." Her loss seemed for a long time to 
cast a blank over their lives, as almost all their 
arrangements had been made with reference to 
her. 

At Easter Sir George took great interest in 
arranging a performance of " The Messiah " in 
Ascot church. The chorus was composed of 
friends in the neighbourhood and some members 
of the Windsor and Eton Choral Society. At 
supper, after the performance, Sir George re- 
marked the absence of one of the members, and 
inquiring as to its cause, was told that the absentee 
was suffering from gout. " What ! " he exclaimed 
in a tone of astonishment, almost of incredulity, 
(l a member of the Windsor and Eton Choral 
Society got the gout'.' Then, as though nothing 
could be more satisfactory, " Things are look- 
ing up." 

In May he visited Buxton to conduct his cantata, 1 
which was to be performed at a concert got up by 

1 The one composed for Her Majesty's birthday in 1850. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 303 

his old pupil, Mr. Fred. Burgiss, organist of St. 
James's Church there. 

From thence he and Lady Elvey went to 
Kendal, to stay with an uncle and aunt of the 
latter. The lovely scenery in the neighbourhood 
was a source of intense enjoyment to Sir George. 
This he saw to advantage, for the keen weather had 
covered the hills around Windermere with snow, 
and the reflection of a deep blue sky on their 
glistening surface enchanted him with its beauty. 

While at Kendal Sir George was induced to 
give a short organ recital, to the immense pleasure 
of a large congregation assembled in the fine old 
parish church. This is claimed to be the largest 
in England, having five aisles. 

Recitals in churches were a thing he would rarely 
give, as he held very strongly that organs were 
put there to assist men to worship God, and not 
for the glorification of the organist. After his 
death, Mr. Armstrong, the organist of Kendal, 
referring to this visit, wrote as follows to Lady 
Elvey. 

"The loss of Sir George is deeply felt every- 
where. We in Kendal always looked forward to 
his visits with real pleasure, and delighted to hear 
him on our parish church organ. Whenever I 



304 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

had the opportunity of attending the service at 
Windsor, during some twenty years or more, I 
was always impressed with the feeling that I was 
privileged to hear one of England's greatest church 
composers and cathedral organists, besides learning 
that Sir George was a good man, full of sympathy 
and kindness. It was a great happiness to me to 
meet with Sir George and yourself. I need not 
say that I shall always cherish a vivid recollection 
of him ; indeed, who can forget him ? He had 
many admirers too far away to know him per- 
sonally. 

" Yours very respectfully, 

"W. B. ARMSTRONG." 

On his return to Ascot Sir George prepared an 
anthem for his much-loved sovereign's jubilee. 
He also wrote two beautiful tunes to hymns by the 
Bishop of Exeter for the same occasion. 

A copy of these he sent to the Queen, who 
graciously accepted them. 

In June he went to Newbury to conduct the 
Jubilee celebration in the parish church there, 
where his Service in E and Jubilee anthem, 
" Behold, O God our Defender!'' were to be per- 
formed. He played the organ at the previous 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 305 

Sunday evening service, giving a short recital 
afterwards. 

At the Jubilee service his conducting was full of 
energy and "go," and members of the orchestra 
and combined choirs who took part in the service 
still speak of its inspiriting nature. 

Nothing annoyed him more than inanimate 
singing, and sensitive as his ear was, he has been 
heard to express preference for a certain singer, 
who he knew was frequently out of tune, over 
another who was mechanically perfect, but stiff and 
expressionless. 

Greatly to his consternation, the Vicar of New- 
bury would not allow the usual drummer to play in 
church as he was a Dissenter, but Sir George, 
ever ready in an emergency, exclaimed to Lady 
Elvey, " We cannot do without the drums, so you 
must play them." Not a little to the amusement 
of many who attended the services, her ladyship 
wielded the drumsticks. 

Sir George and Lady Elvey were, during this 
visit, most hospitably entertained by the Vicar of 
Newbury and his wife. 

Two days afterwards Sir George was present in 
Windsor when Her Majesty returned from London 
and unveiled the statue on the Castle Hill. He 

x 



3 o6 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

was in the Quadrangle in the evening, when the 
Eton boys had their torchlight procession, and 
greatly enjoyed the picturesque sight. 

He used to allude with pleasure to the fact of 
his having seen both the Queen's coronation and 
her jubilee. 

Later in the summer Sir George had a very 
severe illness, and when partially recovered went 
with Lady Elvey to Lowestoft for a few weeks, 
and thence to the Isle of Wight. Here he greatly 
enjoyed the company of two of his nieces, and used 
to have tremendous fun over his daily regime of 
milk pudding, which he nicknamed " Slobbery 
Boski." He would often send for the landlady, 
and amid much laughter inform her that he was 
tired of " slobbery boski," and must have some 
apple tart or plum pudding. 

With children he was always the same, and 
many of his little nephews and nieces received 
from him amusing nicknames. One little girl he 
would persist in calling " Dick," and though fre- 
quently remonstrated with on the subject, he 
refused laughingly to alter his opinion, saying that 
as she had short hair he never could remember 
that she was not a boy. He would often keep 
these little people very merry by inquiring if they 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 307 

knew how to make a cherub, and when they replied 
in the negative, he promptly showed them of 
course all immediately going through the same 
performance. He would then show them how a 
jackdaw looked down a bone, and many other 
tricks, at which there would be peals of laughter. 

He had a really curious way of putting into 
words the thoughts which he assumed to be occu- 
pying the minds of people on certain occasions. 
One afternoon the following remarks afforded the 
hearer much amusement, chiefly from the manner 
in which the last sentence was spoken : " Oh ! 
how d'ye do ? " etc., etc. " Lady Elvey is not at 
home this afternoon. She's at Windsor gone 
shopping. I'd rather not go when there's much 
shopping to be done particularly in Windsor. 
You see I lived there a good many years, and it's 
not very pleasant to loiter about. People look at 
one as much as to say, ' Ugh ! You come back 
again!'" 



3 o8 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 

IN June, 1888, he took part for the last time in 
the Handel Festival, playing his violin at the 
same desk with Dr. Longhurst of Canterbury. 

In view of this, he had been looking through a 
copy of the autograph score of the " Messiah," 
with the result given in his own words below : 

" To the Editor of the ' Musical Times! 

" SIR, 

" It always seemed to me a singular thing 
that in the arrangement of the ' Pastoral ' Symphony 
Handel should have doubled the second violin 
part only. A short time since, in looking at the 
autograph score published by the Sacred Harmonic 
Society, I discovered that he had written a third 
violin part to play in octaves to the first violin, so 
that both first and second violin parts were doubled. 
Upon making this discovery I wrote to Sir 
Frederick Ouseley, and he told me that he pos- 




tff 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 309 

sessed the score from which Handel conducted 
the * Messiah/ and this has the third violin part 
to the Symphony, and further, that this part is 
also in the copy at the Foundling Hospital. 

"On learning these facts I wrote to Mr. Manns, 
and am happy to say that at the recent Handel 
Festival the Symphony was performed in the way 
the giant intended it to be, and I hope it will 
never be again performed otherwise. 

" I am, yours truly, 

"G. J. ELVEY. 

"July i%th, 1888." 



Throughout this year much time was occupied 
in searching the neighbourhood for a suitable 
house, as the lease of " La Tour " had nearly ex- 
pired. In the autumn a pretty place within easy 
reach of Windsor was secured, and the removal 
took place in June of the ensuing year. 

During the last years of his life Sir George 
much appreciated the beautiful surroundings and 
the repose of his country home, and these years 
were probably among the happiest he ever spent. 

Long drives through the lovely Swinley woods, 
or across Chobham Common, were the greatest 
delight to him, especially in the long summer 



3 io LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

evenings, when Nature, in the fading light, looked 
her best. Many pleasant hours were spent in this 
way, and, with a true artist's eye, Sir George took 
a keen delight in pointing out to visitors pictu- 
resque " bits," and the best points from which to 
see any particularly lovely view. 

In the summer of 1890 his only daughter, Nellie, 
was married to Leonard Creasy, and in November 
she left with her husband for his home in Ceylon. 
Sir George greatly felt the parting, as he knew it 
would be a final one. 

In July he and Lady Elvey started on a driving 
tour from their home to Cromer, stopping at 
various places en route. After a glorious day, 
just before reaching Hitchin, they were overtaken 
by a tremendous storm, and before shelter was 
reached were all tolerably well drenched. The 
rain came down in torrents for about six hours, 
till the water ran in the streets like rivers. How- 
ever, happily for the tourists, the next day was 
fine, and the journey was continued to Cambridge, 
where Sir George thoroughly enjoyed seeing the 
colleges, and, as they remained over Sunday, he 
was enabled to attend the services in King's and 
Trinity College Chapels. 

Another week or so spent in this way, driving 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 311 

by easy stages through part of Cambridgeshire 
and Norfolk, brought them to Cromer. 

Their visit here was a very pleasant one. Mr. 
and Mrs. Johnson were staying next door, and Sir 
George used to enjoy a pipe with his friend and a 
stroll on the cliff when he felt the steep descent to 
the beach beyond his power. The afternoons were 
spent in long drives through the Norfolk lanes. 

On one occasion, during this visit, a " gentle- 
man " called to request him to patronize a concert 
to be given in the Town Hall, arranged by himself 
and his brothers. He consented, and great was 
his amusement when he found that the "gentle- 
man " was one of three niggers who gave daily 
entertainments on the shore ! 

Towards the close of September, fearing that the 
cold equinoctial gales, which are experienced with 
peculiar force at that, the most exposed part of 
the east coast, would be dangerous for Sir George's 
health, at the kind invitation of Mrs. Bush they 
went to East Cowes Park for a fortnight, spending 
there a very happy time. Sir George passed 
many pleasant hours boating and fishing in the 
Solent, and in taking long drives in the island. 
He was deeply interested in Mrs. Bush's aged 
uncle, Dr. Moore, who for many years had been 



312 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

tutor to the Maharajah of Johore in India, but 
was now a bedridden invalid. Whenever the old 
man was equal to seeing visitors, Sir George 
would seat himself at his bedside, and earnestly 
strive to win him to full and simple trust in the 
Saviour. 

At the harvest festival at Trinity Church, West 
Cowes, Sir George played the service, and gave a 
recital afterwards, which was a source of much 
pleasure to the congregation. 

The organ he described as "a box of tricks ;" 
for it had been built with all kinds of contri- 
vances to suit a lame organist. 

The following summer a visit was made to 
Kendal, which was endeared to Lady Elvey by 
many pleasant associations. It was there that her 
mother had been brought up, and many members 
of the family still resided in the district. 

After a few weeks spent in Lake-land, they went 
on to Penmaenmawr, stopping at Lancaster, 
Chester, and Colwyn Bay en route. 

For two or three winters previous to his death, 
Sir George had been forbidden by his doctor to 
spend as much time as formerly out of doors. He 
greatly missed his usual occupation of superintend- 
ing all that was done in his garden, but, with 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 313 

the gentleness and power of adapting himself to 
circumstances that was so strongly characteristic 
of him, he gave up what had hitherto been such a 
delight, and spent his time chiefly in his little study, 
reading for hours together, and writing letters. 

He took an intense interest in all the topics of 
the day, was always well up in all parliamentary 
news, and carefully studied the musical papers. 

During these quiet years of his retirement he 
devoted a great deal of time to looking over his 
music, and preparing some for publication. 

A short time after he left Windsor he published 
his popular anthem for Palm Sunday, "In the 
Third Hour." When first he wrote this, the Dean 
and Chapter of Windsor were much exercised in 
their minds as to whether it was quite suitable for 
performance in church, the subject being treated 
rather dramatically. However, it was decided 
upon, and Bishop Thirlwall of St. David's, who 
was present on its first introduction, wrote thus of 
it to a friend : 

" Abergwili Palace, 

April, 1867. 



" After breakfast the Queen sent me a 
message by the Dean of Windsor that she was 



3 14 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

very sorry she should not be able to attend the 
twelve o'clock service, and asking me to send her 
the MS. of my sermon, which of course I did as 
soon as it was discharged. 

" The afternoon was very pleasantly divided 
between the library, magnificent Oriental MSS., 
and rare miniatures, and St. George's Chapel, and 
a wonderful dramatic anthem, which, though 
arranged by Dr. Elvey, I believe to be of 
mediaeval origin, being a musical picture of the 
Crucifixion." 

" How the Bishop came to attribute a mediaeval 
origin to the anthem," said Sir George recently to 
a friend, " I cannot say. No piece of that descrip- 
tion ever came under my observation." 

Not long after his youngest son Handel's birth, 
he wrote a fugue on the initials of his name, 
G. F. H. E., which he has left carefully for him to 
have when he is old enough. 

Among other musical work at this time he pre- 
pared his violin and piano gavotte for publication. 

In the letter which accompanied a copy sent to 
a friend, the following sentence occurs : " I send 
you a chip from the very old block, which I have 
been foolish enough to publish." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 315 

He also prepared one of his services and wrote 
a Communion Service. Besides all these, he com- 
posed a great number of hymn tunes for various 
collections. 

The last of them was written not many months 
before his death for a Scotch hymn-book. One 
was a funeral hymn, and this he arranged some- 
what elaborately, and spent much time and trouble 
over it. 

He always said, when engaged on the work, 
that he felt he was composing his requiem. 

The long list of compositions at the end of this 
volume will show what a voluminous and versatile 
composer was Sir George. What is more re- 
markable still, is that he excelled in any branch of 
the art to which he directed his attention. His 
musical ideas flowed with marvellous rapidity, and 
it appeared to take but a few moments, when 
suitable words presented themselves to his mind, 
before they were reproduced in a musical picture. 
Sometimes this would happen while taking a drive, 
a country walk, or when sitting quietly over a 
cigar. Then he would take a piece of music- 
paper, and, in a few minutes (for he wrote with 
wonderful celerity), his thoughts would take 
legible form. 



316 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

He never left home without carefully packing 
some music-paper, for composition was to him a 
form of recreation. 

The following letters written to a friend, one 
referring to an article in the " Musical World," are 
interesting as giving his opinion on modern organs 
and modern organ-playing. 

" DEAR , 

" Although I am now living a very quiet 
life, and have no musical occupation, I like to 
know what is going on in the musical world, and 
read with much interest the account of organ 
recitals from the paper which some kind friend 
sends me. 

"Now I very much regret to find so few of 
Handel's choruses played. Can you account for it ? 
Probably I stand alone, but I prefer the old G or 
F organs (as St. George's used to be) ; they are, in 
my opinion, more suitable for Church music. 1 

1 Sir George, while preferring the G or F organ for his own use, 
as he had always been accustomed to it, did not so much object 
to C organs when on a large scale, and frequently played on them 
in various parts of the country. But he certainly did object to 
this compass in small organs, in which, often, there is no stop 
on the pedals but the one Bourdon, and the organist is thus 
deprived of the power to efficiently support the voices. During 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 317 

Gibbons in F, that service of services, on my 
old instrument, where every stop went down to 
F, will not be forgotten by me, and possibly by 
others. 

"What an absurdity it is to find in a village 
church a C C organ, with pedals up to your neck, 
for hymns and chants ! Verily the world has gone 
mad, and organ-playing too Pedals ! pedals ! ! 
pedals ! ! ! nothing but pedals. 

" I sometimes wish organs were made without 
them ; we should then have appropriate music 
played in our churches. 

" I was very much amused with an article in the 
' Musical World' a short time since, ' The way we 
write our oratorios.' I wish the author of it would 
say something about modern organ performances. 
He might be able to tell us how many notes could 
be played in a second." 

"SIR, 

" I would crave the indulgence of a small 
space in your columns, not only to express my own 

the latter part of his life Sir George inclined to have equal 
temperament, but his nervousness prevented him from having 
this alteration made ; for, if he had not after all been satisfied 
with the result, the older form could not have been returned to. 



318 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

opinions, but to gain, if possible, the views of those 
amongst your readers who may think the great 
subject a worthy one for your consideration. This 
I do, not with a desire for controversy on my part, 
;as that I entirely leave to others, but I would 
much wish to ask What are organs put into 
churches for? and for what use were they originally 
intended ? It seems to me that only one answer 
can be given to these questions ; for surely the 
purpose was and ought to be for playing the 
Church services. But, Sir, can anyone affirm that 
in the present day this is the all-important use of 
the instrument ? Dr. Beattie in his * Essays' says, 
' the sound of an organ puts us in mind of a church, 
and that sound should serve before all things to 
bring to the human heart and mind the words, the 
prayers, the praises, and the comfort which it aids 
us to express in the true and reasonable services 
of the Church.' It appears to me, however, that 
in these days organ recital is the chief use of the 
church organ, and I would here protest against the 
modern C C compass of this once noble instrument. 
I am fully aware that Bach's pedal fugues cannot 
be played on G organs, but there are many grand 
compositions which can be better performed on G 
-than on C C organs, and Handel's six organ fugues 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 319 

were written for the G organ. Depend upon it, 
Sir, our forefathers were not such fools as many 
suppose them to have been, and they had good 
and wise reasons for extending the manuals to G, 
and in some instances to F F. 

" In expressing these opinions I know that I 
may meet with severe treatment, but although J 
may stand alone now, it was not always so. Many 
dear friends who have passed away entertained 
the same opinions as myself, and I, alone or not, 
cannot but utter a cry of lament for the past 
grandeur and the present weakness of our dear 
and valued instrument." 

" When once Church music became the subject 
of conversation," writes a friend, " Sir George 
entered into it with keenness and animation. 
The hearer, if he knew little or nothing of music 
and its history, might feel that he was incapable 
of duly appreciating so great a treat, and that 
he was now being justly punished for having 
neglected this branch of his education. But that 
there was anything dull or prosy about the con- 
versation he could not feel. Even if it developed 
for a short time into a monologue, the earnest, 
unaffected manner of the speaker combined with 



320 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

the absence of technical terms put him at his ease 
and made him at least think he understood, while 
the enthusiasm and the deeply devotional spirit 
which breathed in every word, aroused within 
him a feeling of admiration and respect." 

Sir George was fond of quoting a remark of his 
brother's, relating to style in Church music. He 
considered that our fine old cathedrals and their 
music ought to go together the music should sug- 
gest worship just as much as roof and arch and 
window. A stranger listening at a distance and 
unable to catch the words, should be able to say, 
" That is sacred music." The foregoing will show 
that though in a sense his public life was over, he 
had lost none of his keen interest in the world in 
which he had played such a prominent part. 

But the stress of public work and the toil of a 
busy life was over, and for him had come a well- 
earned period of repose a life so peaceful that it 
seemed as if nothing could mar its deep content 
and calm. 

This is beautifully described by Mr. Curwen in 
an article which appeared in " The Musical Herald," 
and in the letter which follows : 

"The flicker of the fire catches one's gaze, and 
stirs the imagination ; we seem to see the long 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 321 

procession of Anglican Church composers, loyal, 
earnest and devout, in the pursuit of sacred art. 

"The impression we retain is of an old man 
sitting opposite to us, who knows and embodies 
more completely than anyone living the traditions 
of the Anglican school a man who has lived a life 
as earnest and devout and true as those of any of 
the musicians who have preceded him." 

" It was a pleasure to me, living as I do in the 
stress of modern musical life, its competitions and 
jealousies, the pushing and striving of rival men and 
rival schools of composition, to meet with one who 
breathed a calmer air. Sir George was like a 
warrior who had laid down his arms ; he had no 
jealousies, and was full of charitable judgments, 
while his musical faith was surely fixed in the 
grand old models in which he had been reared 
Handel's and the best of the Anglican Church 
school of composers. Now and then, as we talked, 
some topic would rouse him, and he would deliver 
a vigorous opinion, but immediately he would add, 
' Don't put that down,' so afraid was he of hurting 
anyone's feelings, so reluctant to enter the arena of 
controversy with which he had done." 



322 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 

IN 1892 Ilfracombe was chosen for the annual 
summer outing, and many excursions were 
made to the different points of interest along the 
rugged, wave-worn coast. 

During these later years two visits were made 
to Bristol, on both occasions for the purpose of 
attending concerts at which some of Sir George's 
music was to be performed, and gratifying indeed 
was the reception he met with in that city. 

The first time was to attend a concert given by 
the Orpheus Glee Society, at which his part-song 
for men's voices, " From yonder rustling mountain," 
was most exquisitely performed. So delighted 
was he with this concert, that when the same 
society gave a performance at St. James's Hall, he 
went again to hear them there. The last time he 
and Lady Elvey visited the city was to attend a 
concert of the Madrigal Society, in which he had 
always taken a great interest. 

For many years he went regularly to Bristol for 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 323 

their " Ladies' Nights," taking with him his two 
head boys. On these occasions he, Dr. Corfe, 
and Mr. Rootham, used to sing side by side 
amongst the basses. 

At the concert in April, 1892, the society sung 
his fine part-song, " The Zetland Fishermen." Of 
this performance it was said : " The bright and 
sparkling song of the ' Zetland Fishermen/ by the 
veteran Sir George Elvey, who occupied a seat in 
the balcony, is full of clever and effective writing. 
The treatment of the phrases, ' We'll sing while 
we bait ' and ' We'll sing while we haul/ is nautical 
in every sense of the word. The piece had evi- 
dently received very careful attention at the 
rehearsals; hence its many beauties were ade- 
quately portrayed. So delighted were the assem- 
blage with the composition and its rendering, that 
it was followed by a hearty burst of applause, 
which was continued until the composer had 
acknowledged the compliment, and the pitch-pipe 
was blown for a repetition of the charming work.' 1 

Sir George was delighted with the performance, 
and said to Mr. Rootham, " I do not expect to 
hear it again, but the last time is the best." 

Mr. Rootham says : " I never remember the 
whole of the members of the society being more 



324 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

pleased than they were on this occasion. To feel 
that we all had been the means of giving our dear 
old friend a musical treat, was a source of un- 
feigned gratification to every member of the 
society, boys as well as men, and I shall never 
forget the kind way in which he spoke of the 
whole performance." 

After the concert Sir George and Lady Elvey 
were most hospitably entertained by Mr. and Mrs. 
Harvey, and one present during the evening says 
of Sir George, " His large fund of anecdotes upon 
musical matters, and his kind, genial manner, 
made that evening one that will ever bring back 
a pleasant recollection with it." 

Sir George had anticipated with great pleasure 
meeting at Bristol his kind old friend, Mr. Blair- 
Oliphant, and it was a great disappointment to 
him to hear from his brother-in-law there, that he 
was seriously ill. The arrangement to meet at 
Bristol had been of long standing, as the concert 
had been originally fixed for January, but was 
postponed on account of the death of the Duke of 
Clarence. 

The last performance in which he took part was 
in April, 1893, when for the last time he conducted 
the work he always loved, Handel's " Messiah." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 325 

For this he conducted all the practices, and 
stood during the whole of the concert, which was 
a great success ; in fact, it was considered un- 
equalled in that part of the world. 

Referring to this, he wrote thus to Mr. Han- 
cock : 

" The Towers, 

"Windlesham. 
" MY DEAR HANCOCK, 

" I am much pleased to find from the paper 
that you have sent me, your services have been so 
highly appreciated, and I congratulate you most 
heartily. I am in the thick of getting up the 
" Messiah." The performance is to come off on 
the 29th. In a place like this, where we are so 
far from everyone, it is a difficult matter. We 
have an amateur band and chorus. . . . 
" I am, 

" Your old friend, 

"G. J. ELVEY." 

In June a last pleasant visit was made to 
Brocklesby, and later on Sir George and Lady 
Elvey, with the "little chap," again visited 
Penmaenmawr. 

He seemed stronger than on the previous 
occasion, and spent many long days driving to 



326 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

see various points of interest in the neighbourhood. 
In this way Beaumaris, Bangor, Lake Ogwen, 
Trefrew, Llanrwst, and many other places were 
visited. 

Every morning, as Lady Elvey and Handel 
returned from their early bathe, Sir George would 
be out watching for them at the top of the hill. 

The church services here were a great pleasure 
to him, and at the harvest festival one of his 
anthems was performed, in which he took great 
interest, attending a rehearsal. 

On his return from Wales everyone was struck 
by his healthful appearance, and indeed he seemed 
better able to take exercise, and in every way 
stronger than for many previous years. 

Walking was always a pleasure to him, and early 
in life he was a great pedestrian, yet he never cared 
to go out alone, being intensely nervous of strange 
dogs. He often graphically described the terror 
he once suffered at the Castle, when, left waiting 
in a large room, he spied, as the door closed, a 
collie the only occupant of the apartment 
looking at him with anything but friendly eyes. 

This fear seems somewhat curious, as he was 
very fond of animals, and generally had a pet dog 
of his own. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 327 

At this time he greatly interested himself in 
endeavours to reclaim some property for a poor 
woman, which she had unfortunately lost. He 
was ever ready to perform a kindness for a fellow 
creature, and this effort cost many hours of letter- 
writing, which, owing to his failing eyesight, was 
to him a fatiguing task. He also took a journey 
to Windsor simply to further this object. 

Soon after he received a terrible shock, to which 
he several times alluded, saying he had never got 
over it. The " little chap " was having a romp 
in the passage, and in trying to save himself from 
falling, dashed his hand through a glass door 
leading into the hall. The crash was tremendous, 
but the child did not utter a sound until he saw 
the blood streaming down, and then he said to his 
mother, "I am killed, I am killed!" Still his 
first thought was that his father should not be 
alarmed ; but, unfortunately, Sir George came in 
search of Lady Elvey, while she was trying to 
stop the bleeding and bandage the dreadful 
wounds. 

The shock brought on such a fit of trembling 
that it was some time before Sir George recovered. 
In connection with this, it may be mentioned, in 
illustration of his excessive nervousness and sen- 



328 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

sitiveness, that he could never read the account 
of an accident in the paper, or pass a butcher's 
shop without shuddering. 

This extreme sensitiveness had been strongly 
characteristic of him all his life, for one of his 
earliest pupils writes as follows : 

" One afternoon I was in the organ-loft, and I 
noticed he was indeed very nervous, When I 
asked him the reason, he told me the anthem was 
'Worthy is the Lamb/ and the 'Amen' chorus 
from the ' Messiah/ and, he added, ' I can never 
play this without trembling. If you see me going 
to break down, hit me hard between the shoulders/ 
But though I could see how the music affected 
him, all went well." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 329 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

TOWARDS the end of October he made a 
great effort to be present at a concert given 
by the St. George's Choir at the Albert Institute, 
when his prize part-song, " O power supreme," 
was given. This was exceedingly well sung, and 
gave him great pleasure. A well-known news- 
paper thus wrote after his death : " Only six 
weeks ago he conducted a glee of his own com- 
position at the Windsor St. George's Choir con- 
cert, and looked lovely, with his snow-white locks 
and sturdy, vigorous figure, like a grand old polar 
bear, on the platform, where he was greeted with 
roars of applause/' 

During the last two winter seasons an orchestral 
class was held in his drawing-room every Monday, 
conducted by Mr. Arthur Blagrove. In this he 
took considerable interest, and only the Monday 
before his death came in to play the piano, while 
his "Christmas Bells" was being rehearsed, in 



330 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

preparation for a concert which was to have been 
held on Tuesday, December iQth. 

For long years his deep religious feelings formed 
such an integral part of his character that no one 
could be long in his presence without being im- 
pressed by the absolute reality of his religion, and 
his humble, simple trust in his Saviour. 

As the peaceful evening of his life drew to its 
close, his gentle spirit seemed to dwell more and 
more on things above. 

A gentleman who had not long known him, 
and was perhaps one that would scarcely have 
been expected to notice it, was so impressed 
by this, that, speaking of him after his death, 
he said, " No one could be long in his presence 
without being struck by his devout, religious 
spirit." 

Many speak of the influence of his music on 
the world, but though this was great, how much 
greater still was the influence of his gentle temper 
and holy life upon all with whom he came in 
contact ! 

His compositions can certainly lose nothing in 
the estimation of those who were privileged to 
hear his conversation. 

His quiet unobtrusive piety showed itself con- 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 331 

tinually in little things, and possibly its sincerity 
was thus made the more remarkable. A guest at 
his table has been impressed by the reverent 
manner in which he said grace ; and so it was at 
all times, in a thousand indefinable ways, he un- 
consciously became a teacher of religion and 
morality. 

How well in his case might the lines of Long- 
fellow be applied : 

" God sent his singers upon earth 
With songs of sadness and of mirth, 
That they might touch the hearts of men, 
And bring them back to heaven again." 

It was beautiful and wonderful to see a man 
who, for the greater part of his long life, had 
given his heart to God, using all the best gifts 
with which he was endowed to promote His glory 
in public worship, and by his holy influence, and 
gentle words dropped in season, seeking to lead 
others to the Saviour. 

Although so humble and retiring, he yet lost 
no opportunity of trying to win souls for Christ ; 
by the bedside of the dying, among the labourers 
or servants he employed, and in letters to old 
pupils and friends, he constantly urged the im- 
portance of being ready for eternity. 



332 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

As an instance of these " words in season," the 
following letter, written by one of his old pupils 
after his death, and quoting a passage contained 
in one of Sir George's letters to him, may be 
interesting : 

"The following words of Christian hope and 
resignation contained in one of his last letters to 
me may well serve as a fitting * cadence ' to a 
useful and well-spent life (written on the occasion 
of his 73rd birthday). 

" ' I am an old man now, having entered my 
73rd year. ... A birthday at my time of life is 
a solemn affair; I trust when the end comes I 
may "depart in peace," and fall asleep in Jesus. 
Amen.' " 

From another letter (to a private pupil) the 
following is taken : 

DEAR , 

" I pray that your future may be full of 
happiness ; but, after all, this life is only a pre- 
paration for another more glorious one. May we 
all be partakers of the Heavenly inheritance ! 

"When Mr. read the lessons last Sun- 
day, I could not help thinking of the grand and 
blessed future when he read, ' As we have borne 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 333 

the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the 
image of the Heavenly." . . . 

The following touching letter was written to 
the daughter of one who had been his dearest 
friend : 

" December 2 %th, 1891. 
"MY DEAR MRS. , 

" From the last report sent me by Miss 

, I felt the end of my dear and valued 

friend was near, so I was prepared for the receipt 
of the sad news you have sent me this morning. 
It is sad to me, for I have lost one with whom I 
have been acquainted for more than fifty years. 
We have, as you know, been like brothers ; both of 
us have gone through many trials, and sympathized 
with each other. His loss is a great one to me ; 
such a friend it does not fall to the lot of many to 
possess in this cold world. But we have cause to 
rejoice, too ; we know full well the dear one is in 
peace and in perfect happiness ; he having served 
and loved the Lord Jesus on earth, is now in the 
arms of the Saviour for ever and ever. It is a 
warning for me to be prepared to follow, and my 
end cannot be far off. I hope you will always 
think of me, and that you and Mr. will 



334 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

not forget me in your prayers. I shall be afraid 
to venture to be present on Wednesday; the ser- 
vice would be too much for me, and I am fearful 
of getting a chill. The weather is very trying, and 
I seldom go out. 

" How touching the account you have given me 
of the end ! That smile you will never forget. 
Your letter came when I was having my morning's 
reading; I instantly turned to i Thess. iv. 13. 

" May God comfort and bless you all for Christ's 
sake. Amen. 

" I am, 

" Yours sincerely, 

(Signed) G. J. ELVEY." 
# # * # # 

Little wonder that people speak of the " beauty 
-of his playing, peculiarly his own," but in truth 
the fingers were but the channel of the rapture of 
his soul. A young girl once entered the Chapel, 
and was so impressed by this feeling as to remark, 
" The way the Psalms are played here is a com- 
mentary on the words." 

An .artist, meeting Lady Elvey shortly after Sir 
George's death, made use of the same expression 
when referring to his playing. 

It was his usual habit to rise early, to gain half 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 335 

an hour's quiet reading and prayer before family 
worship or the duties of the day commenced, and 
as he felt the end was nearing he devoted more 
and more time to the earnest study of his Bible, 
every verse of which was the subject of much 
careful thought. 

During the last few weeks of his life intense 
was his delight in reading Ryle on St. John. In 
speaking of himself he often said, " I have no 
wonderful Christian experience to relate, but I 
trust that my sins are forgiven through the precious 
blood of Christ." 

Living in the country, two miles from any place 
of worship, it was impossible in bad weather for 
anyone to go to church on Sunday, and on these 
occasions he would gather all the household to- 
gether, and himself read the service, play the 
chants and hymns, and read some beautiful address, 
upon which he would not infrequently make earnest 
remarks of his own. 

Such a service he held only ten days before his 
death. 

Truly his was a beautiful old age ! Happy and 
devout, he peacefully waited his call. On Tuesday 
afternoon, December 5th, he was not very well, 
but it did not appear to be more than a passing 



336 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

attack of indigestion such as he sometimes had. 
Although Lady Elvey proposed to stay at home 
with him, and not go to London, as she had 
planned, he overruled her misgivings, and per- 
suaded her to carry out her intention. He ap- 
peared fairly well, and on her return for late 
dinner he took his meal with heartiness, and 
appeared quite himself again. 

On Wednesday he was seized with a severe 
attack of illness, and Lady Elvey was greatly 
alarmed to find that he could not walk or do any- 
thing without assistance. At his own desire, how- 
ever, he was dressed and helped downstairs to his 
favourite chair in the study. 

He remained up till about three o'clock, and 
then retired to bed, from which he never again 
rose. He was so feeble that he could not turn, but 
always said he was comfortable and had no pain. 

In the evening, in response to a telegram, his 
son Robert arrived, and he roused somewhat, and 
seemed pleased to see him. The following day 
he rallied a little, and had more strength ; but the 
fever returned at night, and in the morning, though 
that was conquered, it was apparent that it would 
be very difficult at his age to rally him from the 
excessive weakness that influenza had left. 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 337 

About seven o'clock on Saturday morning, with- 
out pain or suffering of any kind, with one bright 
look, his spirit fled to be with the Saviour he had 
loved so long. 

Throughout his illness his thoughts were all for 
others, lamenting that one or two who came to 
see him should have such a dull time. He feared 
that Lady Elvey would be knocked up, and fre- 
quently desired that she would go to bed, feeling 
grieved that he should give so much trouble. 

As regards himself, his mind seemed in perfect 
peace, and we can but praise God for His mercy 
in sparing one of his highly-strung temperament 
all fear and suffering. Nothing could exceed the 
care and thought shown to him by the servants, 
who were, one and all, devoted to their master, 
and no words can express the unremitting care 
and attention of his medical attendant, who acted 
on many occasions both as nurse and doctor. 
# # # # # 

On Thursday, December i4th, he was laid 
to rest " until the day break and the shadows flee 
away " in the catacombs of St. George's, close 
under the walls of the noble Chapel which had been 
the scene of his life-work. 

The whole ceremony was a very simple, but 

z 



338 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

a very impressive one. By order of Her Majesty 
the Queen the grave was lined with exquisite 
white camellias and chrysanthemums from the 
royal conservatories. 

The remains were met at the north door of the 
Chapel by the Bishop of Rochester, the Dean 
of Windsor, and Bishop Barry, and as they were 
borne through the nave to the garter-bannered 
choir the opening sentences of the burial service 
were chanted to Croft's music by the choir, Sir 
Walter Parratt conducting. 

Sir Joseph Savory followed as chief mourner, 
representing Lady Elvey, who was prevented 
from being present by an attack of influenza. 

The Queen was represented by Colonel the 
Hon. W. Carington. 

The Dean of Windsor and Bishop Barry took 
the service inside the Chapel, the latter reading 
the lesson. 

The music consisted of the Thirty-ninth Psalm 
(Purcell), and Sir George's own touching anthem, 
11 The souls of the righteous," which he had 
composed for the service held in the Private 
Chapel in memory of H.R.H. Princess Alice, on 
December i8th, 1878. 

As the procession left the Chapel a funeral 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 339 

march was played, and the hymn sung at the 
grave-side by the famous choir, "over which 
he presided so splendidly for so many years," 
was his own setting of " Just as I am, without 
one plea." This was the most touching part of 
the service, and the crowd standing round were 
visibly moved. 

Among the immense congregation who filled 
the choir and nave were Dr. Lloyd, Dr. Verrinder, 
Dr. Bridge, Sir John Stainer, Dr. Hubert Parry, 
Sir Arthur Sullivan, Dr. Turpin, Dr. Arnold, etc. 
Throughout it was a scene that touched the 
historic sense. 

Many "old boys" and men now prominent 
in the musical world, who had been Sir George's 
pupils, were present. 

What a rush of memories must have come upon 

them as they sat in the softened light of the 

winter afternoon, waiting for the service to begin ! 

Memories of happy days spent in the royal 

borough twenty, thirty, or perhaps forty years ago, 

under the guidance of one at whose grave they 

met that day one to whose kindly nature they all 

owed much, and whom they would ever remember 

with a feeling of tender reverence and affection. 

His loss had snapped a link with the past 



340 LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 

a past of all that was best and noblest in English 
Church music and English Church musicians, and 
the pathetic sadness of old association clung round 
the severed chain. 

The " old boys " some of them with grey hair 
sent a wreath in memory of their "grand old 
master/' and at the "White Hart," where the 
friends from a distance assembled after the cere- 
mony, many and gentle were the reminiscences 
awakened. 

A friend of Sir George's wrote the following 
testimony to his life-work after his death : 

" Music is the most ennobling gift when used 
aright, and to the glory of God. Sir George's 
work was so much that, and the memory of 
services at Windsor years ago are some of my 
happiest recollections." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 341 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

THUS runs the simple story of a simple life. 
No one met Sir George Elvey at any time 
during his career but was struck with the intense 
passionate love of the man for his work, and for 
the holy zeal and conscientiousness that charac- 
terized the simplest details of his daily life. The 
soul of the man breathed through his music, and 
his music was such as made for righteousness. 
From a boy his life was marked by gentleness, 
purity, and unswerving consistency to the Master 
whom he loved, and lived to serve. And in his 
later years, when honours fell thick upon him, amid 
the glamour of the Court and the loud shout of 
public applause, his ears were never dulled to the 
whisperings of the still small voice. 

It was his delight that his best and noblest 
efforts should have been devoted to the musical 
adaptation of divine themes. And now that he 
has 'gone \ from us, the memory of his life-work 
cannot die. 



342 



LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF 



It is enshrined upon the altars of our national 
religion itself. 

" The shadow is gone down upon the dial of thy days, 

No more thy once familiar form moves in the busy crowd of 

men. 

Thou art at rest ; 
The tear thy memory demands 
Is paid by those who loved thee best. 
Good-bye awhile, dear, kind old man ; 
In happier scenes than these we'll meet and love again." 



SIR GEORGE J. ELVEY. 343 



APPENDIX. 

LIST OF GEORGE J. ELVEY'S 
COMPOSITIONS. 

ORGAN. 

" Christmas Bells." Impromptu. 

" Festal March." 

" A wet day at Henley " (unpublished). 

Several voluntaries published in collections. 

SERVICES. 

Te Deum and Benedictus in F. 

Magnificat and Nunc Dimittis in F. 

Te Deum, Jubilate, and Kyrie in B flat. 

Cantate Domino and Deus Misereatur in D. 

The Office for the Holy Communion in E, including 

Benedictus and Agnus Dei. 
Magnificat and Nunc Dimittis in E. 
Benedictus and Agnus Dei in E. 
Kyrie Eleison in B flat 

Evening Service in E, eight voices (unpublished). 
Evening Service in C major (unpublished). 



344 



APPENDIX. 



ANTHEMS. 

" And it was the third hour." 

" Arise, shine, for thy light is come." 

"Arise, shine, for thy light is come," longer (unpub- 
lished). 

"Almighty and everlasting God" (composed for the 
opening of St. Michael's College, Tenbury). 

" Blessed are they that fear the Lord." 

"Bow down Thine ear" (Gresham Prize Medal). 

"Behold, O God our Defender" (Jubilee Anthem). 

" Blessed are the dead." 

" Christ being raised from the dead." 

" Come, Holy Ghost, our souls inspire." 

" Come unto Me, all ye that labour." 

" Daughters of Jerusalem." 

" Hear, O heavens ! " (unpublished). 

" Hide not Thou Thy face " (unpublished). 

" In that day shall this song be sung." 

" I beheld, and lo ! a great multitude." 

" I was glad when they said." 

" If we believe that Jesus died." 

"I will alway give thanks" (unpublished). 

" My God, my God ! " 

" O ! do well unto Thy servant." 

" O ! give thanks unto the Lord." 

" O ! be joyful in God." 

" O ! be joyful in the Lord, all ye lands." 

" O Holy Ghost, our souls inspire ! " 

" O praise the Lord of Heaven ! " 

" ye that love the Lord ! " 



LIST OF GEORGE J. ELVEY'S COMPOSITIONS. 345 

" O praise the Lord ! all ye heathen " (for three choirs, 
unpublished). 

" O Lord ! from Whom." 

" O worship the Lord ! " 

" Praise the Lord, ye servants " (unpublished). 

" Praise the Lord, and call upon His name." 

" Rejoice in the Lord " (for the re-opening of the organ, 
St. George's Chapel). 

" Sing, O heavens ! " (unpublished). 

" Sing unto God ! " (unpublished). 

" This is the day which the Lord hath made." 

" The ways of Zion do mourn " (composed for his Mus. 
Doc. degree, unpublished). 

" The eyes of all wait on Thee " (Harvest Anthem, un- 
published). 

" The Lord is King " (unpublished). 

" They that go down to the sea " (unpublished). 

" The Lord is my light and my salvation" (unpublished). 

"Teach me, O Lord ! " (unpublished). 

" The souls of the righteous." 

" Unto Thee have I cried." 

" Wherewithal shall a young man." 

" While shepherds waUhed " (unpublished). 

" When Israel came out of Egypt " (unpublished). 

" Come, ye lofty " (Christmas Carol). 
" Come, ye nations, thankful own " (Christmas Hymn). 
" Thou art gone to the grave " (Funeral Hymn). 
"To thee, O Lord! we bring this day" (Baptismal 
Hymn). 

f " I shall not in the grave remain." 
Two Chorales | (<To ^ Q 

A A 



34 6 APPENDIX. 

CHANTS. 

Fifteen Double Chants. 
Thirty Cathedral Chants. 

ORCHESTRAL. 

" Mount Carmel," Oratorio (unpublished). 

"The Resurrection and Ascension," Oratorio (unpub- 
lished). 

Cantata for Her Majesty's Birthday. , . 

" Hark ! what tumultuous sounds " (Cantata for William 
IV.'s Birthday, 1836). 

"Victoria "(Ode). 

" The British Lion sleeps." 

"The British Sacred Banner." 

"The Festal March." 

" The Albert Edward March." 

" Rejoice in the Lord." 

" Sing unto God." 

" The ways of Zion." 

" Behold, O God our Defender." 

" In that Day." 



" The Lord is King." 

"Sing, O Heavens!" 

" The Lord is my Light andjmy Salvation." 

"Praise the Lord, and call upon His name." 

" This is the day which the Lord hath made." 

"O be joyful in the Lord." 

" Let us now praise famous men." 



Anthems. 



LIST OF GEORGE J. ELVEY'S COMPOSITIONS. 347 

PIANO. 

"The Albert Edward March." 

" Christmas Bells." 

" Festal March." 

" Gavotte a la mode ancienne." 

PIANO AND VIOLIN. 
Introduction and Gavotte. 

PART SONGS. 

" Britannia rules by land and sea." 

" Bridal bells " (unpublished). 

" British sacred banner " (unpublished). 

" Bright may the sun shine o'er him " (unpublished). 

" From yonder rustling mountain." 

" Gather ye rosebuds " (unpublished). 

" Love, under friendship's " (unpublished). 

" Ode to the North-west wind." 

" The thorn is in the bud " (unpublished). 

" Softly, softly blow, ye breezes." 

" The Zetland Fishermen " (unpublished). 

" Shall I wasting in despair " (unpublished). 

" Hark ! those voices sweetly blending." 

" Victoria," an Ode. 

"O, Power supreme!" 

SONGS. 

" Who can see thee, dearest child ? " 
" Caliban " (unpublished). 




CHISWICK PRESS : CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO. 
TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON. 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS P6CKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



ML Elvey, Mary (Savory) Lady 
416 Life and reminiscences of 
E5E5 George J. Elvey 



Music 



