
1 09 824 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 



^?^Vf '^f ', - "l'\ ' '-:'" * ''*'''* i? ,* '''"^'- '' : '-'5'|ti!' " ''''' '"'''. ' '' ' 




The Master, Camille Saint-Saens 



Copyright, 1919, 

BY SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY 
(INCORPORATED) 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 1 

II THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 14 

III VICTOR HUGO 26 

IV THE HISTORY OF AN OpERA-CofflQUE ... 35 
V Louis GALLET 50 

VI HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY m OPERA ... 61 

VII ART FOR ART'S SAKE 76 

VIII POPULAR SCIENCE AND ART 83 

IX ANARCHY IN Music 91 

X THE ORGAN 98 

XI JOSEPH HAYDN AND THE "SEVEN WORDS" . 109 

XII THE LISZT CENTENARY AT HEIDELBERG (1912) 121 

XIII BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 133 

XIV PAULINE VIARDOT 144 

XV ORPHEE 154 

XVI DELSARTE 179 

XVII SEGHERS 189 

XVIII ROSSINI 201 

XIX JULES MASSENET 211 

XX MEYERBEER 220 

XXI JACQUES OFFENBACH 253 

XXII THEIR MAJESTIES . . 262 

XXIII MUSICAL PAINTERS 273 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

The Master, Canaille Saint-Saens . , Frontispiece 

PAGE 

The Paris Opera 36 

The First Performance of Defanire . . . . 60 
M. Saint-Saens in his Later Years .... 80 

The Madeleine where M. Saint-Saens played the organ 

for twenty years 106 

t Hector Berlioz 134 

Mme. Pauline Viardot 146 

Mme. Patti 206 

M. Jules Massenet 216 

Meyerbeer, Composer of Les Huguenots . . ,242 

Jacques Offenbach . . " 258 

Ingres, the painter famous for his violin , . , 274 



3VIXJSICAL MEMORIES 



MUSICAL MEMOKIES 

CHAPTER I 

MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

In bygone days I was often told that I had two 
mothers, and, as a matter of fact, I did have two 
the mother who gave me life and my maternal 
great-aunt. Charlotte Masson. The latter came 
from an old family of lawyers named Gayard and 
this relationship makes me a descendant of Gen- 
eral Delcambre, one of the heroes of the retreat 
from Russia. His granddaughter married Count 
Durrieu of the Academic des Inscriptions et 
Belles-Lettres. My great-aunt was born in the 
provinces in 1781, but she was adopted by a 
childless aunt and uncle who made their home in 
Paris. He was a wealthy lawyer and they lived 
magnificently. 

My great-aunt was a precocious child she 
1 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

walked at nine months and she became a 
woman of keen intellect and brilliant attain- 
ments. She remembered perfectly the customs 
of the Ancien Regime, and she enjoyed telling 
about them, as well as about the Revolution, the 
Reign of Terror, and the times that followed. 
Her family was mined by the Revolution and the 
slight, frail, young girl undertook to earn her 
living by giving lessons in French, on the piano- 
forte the instrument was a novelty then in 
singing, painting, embroidery, in fact in every- 
thing she knew and in much that she did not. If 
she did not know, she learned then and there so 
that she could teach. Afterwards, she married 
one of her cousins. As she had no children of 
her own, she brought one of her nieces from 
Champagne and adopted her. This niece was 
my mother, Clemence Collin. The Massons 
were about to retire from business with a com- 
fortable fortune, when they lost practically every- 
thing within two weeks, in a panic, saving just 
enough to live decently. Shortly after this my 
mother married my father, a minor official in the 
Department of the Interior. My great-uncle 

2 



MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

died of a broken heart some months before my 
birth on October 9, 1835. My father died of 
consumption on the thirty-first of the following 
December, just a year to a day after his marriage. 

Thus the two women were both left widows, 
poorly provided for, weighed down by sad memo- 
ries, and with the care of a delicate child. In 
fact I was so delicate that the doctors held out lit- 
tle hope of my living, and on their advice I was 
left in the country with my nurse until I was two 
years old. 

While my aunt had had a remarkable educa- 
tion, my mother had not been so widely taught. 
But she made up for any lack by the display of 
an imagination and an eager power of assimila- 
tion which bordered on the miraculous. She 
often told me about an uncle who was very fond 
O f h er he had been ruined in the cause of Phil- 
ippe Egalite. This uncle was an artist, but he 
was, nevertheless, passionately fond of music. 
He had even built with his own hands a concert 
organ on which he used to play. My mother 
used to sit between his knees and, while he 
amused himself by running his fingers through 

3 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

her splendid black hair, he would talk to her 
about art, music, painting beauty in every 
form. So she got it into her head that if she ever 
had sons of her own, the first should be a musi- 
cian, the second a painter, and the third a sculp- 
tor. As a result, when I came home from the 
nurse, she was not greatly surprised that I began 
to listen to every noise and to every sound; that I 
made the doors creak, and would plant myself in 
front of the clocks to hear them strike. My spe- 
cial delight was the music of the tea-kettle a 
large one which was hung before the fire in the 
drawing-room every morning. Seated nearby on 
a small stool, I used to wait with a lively curios- 
ity for the first murmurs of its gentle and varie- 
gated crescendo, and the appearance of a micro* 
scopic oboe which gradually increased its song 
until it was silenced by the kettle boiling. Ber- 
lioz must have heard that oboe as well as I, for I 
rediscovered it in the "Ride to Hell" in his La 
Damnation de Faust. 

At the same time I was learning to read. 
When I was two-years-and-a-half old, they placed 
me in front of a small piano which had not been 

4 



MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

opened for several years. Instead of drumming 
at random as most children of that age would 
have done, I struck the notes one after another, 
going on only when the sound of the previous 
note had died away. My great-aunt taught me 
the names of the notes and got a tuner to put the 
piano in order. While the tuning was going on, 
I was playing in the next room, and they were ut- 
terly astonished when I named the notes as they 
were sounded. I was not told all these details 
I remember them perfectly. 

I was taught by Le Carpentier's method and I 
finished it in a month. They couldn't let a little 
monkey like that work away at the piano, and I 
cried like a lost soul when they closed the instru- 
ment. Then they left it open and put a small 
stool in front of it. From time to time I would 
leave my playthings and climb up to drum out 
whatever came into my head. Gradually, my 
great-aunt, who fortunately had an excellent 
foundation in music, taught me how to hold my 
hands properly so that I did not acquire the gross 
faults which are so difficult to correct later on. 
But they did not know what sort of music to give 

5 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

me. That -written especially for children is, as 
a rule, entirely melody and the part for the left 
hand is uninteresting. I refused to learn it. 
"The bass doesn't sing/' I said, in disgust. 

Then they searched the old masters, in Haydn 
and Mozart, for things sufficiently easy for me to 
handle. At five I was playing small sonatas cor- 
rectly, with good interpretation and excellent 
precision. But I consented to play them only 
before listeners capable of appreciating them. I 
have read in a biographical sketch that I was 
threatened with whippings to make me play. 
That is absolutely false; but it was necessary to 
tell me that there was a lady in the audience who 
was an excellent musician and had fastidious 
tastes. I would not play for those who did not 
know. 

As for the threat of whippings, that must be 
relegated to the realm of legends with the one 
that Garcia punished his daughters to make them 
learn to sing. Madame Viardot expressly told 
me that neither she nor her sister was abused by 
their father and that they learned music without 
realizing it, just as they learned to talk. 

6 



MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

But in spite of my surprising progress my 
teacher did not foresee what my future was to be. 
"When he is fifteen," she said, "if he can write 
a dance, I shall be satisfied." It was just at this 
time, however, that I began to write music. I 
wrote waltzes and galops the galop was fashion- 
able at that period; it ran to rather ordinary mus- 
ical motives and mine were no exception to the 
rule. Liszt had to show by his Galop Chroma- 
tique the distinction that genius can give to the 
most commonplace themes. My waltzes were 
better. As has always been the case with me, I 
was already composing the music directly on pa- 
per without working it out on the piano. The 
waltzes were too difficult for my hands, so a friend 
of the family, a sister of the singer Geraldy, was 
kind enough to play them for me. 

I have looked* over these -little compositions 
lately. They are insignificant, but it is impos- 
sible to find a technical error in them. Such 
precision was remarkable for a child who had no 
idea of the science of harmony. About that time 
some one had the notion that I should hear an 
orchestra. So they took me to a symphony con- 

7 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

cert and my mother held me in her arms near the 
door. Until then I had only heard single violins 
and their tone had not pleased me. But the im- 
pression of the orchestra was entirely different 
and I listened with delight to a passage played by 
a quartet, when, suddenly,, came a blast from the 
brass instruments the trumpets, trombones and 
cymbals. I broke into loud cries, "Make them 
stop. They prevent my hearing the music." 
They had to take me out. 

When I was seven, I passed out of my great- 
aunt's hands into Stamaty's. He was surprised 
at the way my education in music had been di- 
rected and he expressed this in a small work in 
which he discussed the necessity of making a cor- 
rect start. In my case, he said, there was noth- 
ing to do but to perfect. 

Stamaty was Kalkbrenner's best pupil and the 
propagator of the method he had invented. 
This method was based on the guide main, so I 
was put to work on it. The preface to Kalk- 
brenner's method, in which he relates the begin- 
nings of his invention, is exceedingly interesting. 
This invention consisted of a rod placed in front 

8 



MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

of the keyboard. The forearm rested on this 
rod in such a way that all muscular action save 
that of the hand was suppressed. This system is 
excellent for teaching the young pianist how to 
play pieces written for the harpsichord or the first 
pianofortes where the keys responded to slight 
pressure; but it is inadequate for modern works 
and instruments. It is the way one ought to be- 
gin, for it develops firmness of the fingers and 
suppleness of the wrist, and, by easy stages, adds 
the weight of the forearm and of the whole arm. 
But in our day it has become the practice to be- 
gin at the end. We learn the elements of the 
fugue from Sebastian Bach's Wohltemperirte 
Klavier, the piano from the works of Schumann 
and Liszt, and harmony and instrumentation 
from Richard Wagner. All too often we waste 
our efforts, just as singers who learn roles and 
rush on the stage before they know how to sing 
ruin their voices in a short time. 

Firmness of the fingers is not the only thing 
that one learns from Kalkbrenner's method, for 
there is also a refinement of the quality of the 

9 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

sound made by the fingers alone, a valuable re- 
source which is unusual in our day. 

Unfortunately, this school invented as well 
continuous legato, which is both false and monot- 
onous; the abuse of nuances, and a mania for 
continual expressio used with no discrimination. 
All this was opposed to my natural feelings, and 
I was unable to conform to it. They reproached 
me by saying that I would never get a really fine 
effect to which I was entirely indifferent. 

When I was ten, my teacher decided that I was 
sufficiently prepared to give a concert in the Salle 
Pleyel, so I played there, accompanied by an Ital- 
ian orchestra, with Tilmant as the conductor. I 
gave Beethoven's Concerto in C minor and one of 
Mozart's concertos in B flat. There -was some 
question of my playing at the Societe des Con- 
certs du Conservatoire, and there was even a re- 
hearsal But Seghers, who afterwards founded 
the Societe St. Cecile, was a power in the affairs 
of the orchestra. He detested Stamaty and told 
him that the Societe was not organized to play 
children's accompaniments. My mother felt 
hurt and wanted to hear nothing more of it* 

10 



MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

After my first concert, which was a brilliant 
success, my teacher wanted me to give others, but 
my mother did not wish me to have a career as art 
infant prodigy. She had higher ambitions and 
was unwilling for me to continue in concert work 
for fear of injuring my health. The result was 
that a coolness sprang up between my teacher and 
me which ended our relations. 

At that time my mother made a remark whicH 
was worthy of Cornelia. One day some one re- 
monstrated with her for letting me play Bee- 
thoven's sonatas. "What music will he pky 
when he is twenty?" she was asked. "He will 
play his own/ 9 was her reply. 

The greatest benefit I got from my experience 
with Stamaty was my acquaintance with Maleden, 
whom he gave me as my teacher in composition. 
Maleden was born in Limoges, as his accent al- 
ways showed. He was thin and long-haired, a 
kind and timid soul, but an incomparable 
teacher. He had gone to Germany in his youth 
to study with a certain Gottfried Weber, the in- 
ventor of a system which Maleden brought back 

11 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

-with him and perfected. He made it a wonder- 
ful tool with which to get to the depths of music 
a light for the darkest corners. In this system 
the chords are not considered in and for them- 
selves as fifths, sixths, sevenths but in rela- 
tion to the pitch of the scale on which they ap- 
pear. The chords acquire different characteris- 
tics according to the place they occupy, and, as a 
result, certain things are explained which are, 
otherwise, inexplicable. This method is taught 
in the Ecole Niedermeyer, but I don't know that 
it is taught elsewhere. 

Maleden was extremely anxious to become a 
professor at the Conservatoire. As the result of 
powerful influence, Auber was about to sign 
Maleden's appointment, when, in his scrupulous 
honesty, he thought he ought to write and warn 
him that his method differed entirely- from that 
taught in the institution. Auber was frightened 
and Maleden was not admitted* 

Our lessons were often very stormy. From 
time to time certain questions came up on which I 
could not agree with him. He would then take 
me quietly by the ear, bend my head and hold mjr 

12 



MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD 

ear to the table for a minute or two. Then, he 
would ask whether I had changed my mind. As 
I had not, he would think it over and very often 
he would confess that I was right. 

"Your childhood," Gounod once told me, 
"wasn't musical." He was wrong, for he did not 
know the many tokens of my childhood. Many 
of my attempts are unfinished to say nothing 
of those I destroyed but among them are songs, 
choruses, cantatas, and overtures, none of which 
will ever see the light. Oblivion will enshroud 
these gropings after effect, for they are of no in- 
terest to the public. Among these scribblings I 
have found some notes written in pencil when I 
was four. The date on them leaves no doubt 
about the time of their production. 



CHAPTER II 

THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

I cannot let the old Conservatoire in the Rue 
Bergere go without paying it a last farewell, for I 
loved it deeply as we all love the things of our 
youth. I loved its antiquity, the utter absence of 
any modern note, and its atmosphere of other 
days. I loved that absurd court with the wailing 
notes of sopranos and tenors, the rattling of pi- 
anos, the blasts of trumpets and trombones, the 
arpeggios of clarinets, all uniting to form that 
ultra-polyphone which some of our composers 
have tried to attain but without success. 
Above all I loved the memories of my education 
in music which I obtained in that ridiculous and 
venerable palace, long since too small for the 
pupils who thronged there from all parts of the 
world. 

I was fourteen when Stamaty, my piano 
14 



THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

teacher, introduced me to Benoist, the teacher of 
the organ, an excellent and charming man, famil- 
iarly known as "Father Benoist." They put 
me in front of the keyboard, hut I was badly 
frightened, and the sounds I made were so ex- 
traordinary that all the pupils shouted witH 
laughter. I was received at the Conservatoire as 
an "auditor." 

So there I was only admitted to the honor of 
listening to others. I was extremely painstak- 
ing, however, and I never lost a note or one of the 
teacher's words. I worked and thought at home, 
studying hard on Sebastian Bach's Wohltemper- 
irte Klavier. All of the pupils, however, were 
not so industrious. One day, when they had all 
failed and Benoist, as a result, had nothing to do, 
he put me at the organ. This time no one 
laughed and I at once became a regular pupil. 
At the end of the year I won the second prize. 
I would have had the first except for my youth 
and the inconvenience of having me leave a class 
where I needed to stay longer. 

That same year Madeleine Brohan won the 
first prize in comedy. She competed with a se- 

15 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

lection from Misanthrope, and Mile. Jouassin 
gave the other part of the dialogue. Mile. Jou- 
assin's technique was the better, but Madeleine 
Brohan was so wonderful in beauty and voice that 
she carried off the prize. The award made a 
great uproar. To-day, in such a case, the prize 
would be divided. Mile. Jouassin won her prize 
the following year. After leaving school, she ac- 
cepted and held for a long time an important 
place at the Comedie-Frangaise. 

Benoisc was a very ordinary organist, but an 
admirable teacher. A veritable galaxy of talent 
came from his class. He had little to say, but 
as his taste was refined and his judgment sure, 
nothing he said lacked weight or authority. He 
collaborated in several ballets for the Opera and 
that gave him a good deal of work to do. It 
sounds incredible, but he used to bring his 
"work" to class and scribble away on his orches- 
tration while his pupils played the organ. This 
did not prevent his listening and looking after 
them. He would leave his work and make ap- 
propriate comments as though he had no other 
thought. 

16 



THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

In addition to his ballets, Benoist did other lit- 
tle odd jobs for the Opera. As a result one day, 
without thinking, he gave me the key to a deep 
secret. In his famous Traite d' Instrumentation 
Berlioz spoke of his admiration for a passage in 
Sacchini's (Edipus d Colone. Two clarinets are 
heard in descending thirds of real charm just be- 
fore the words, "Je connus la charmante 
Eriphyle" Berlioz was enthusiastic and wrote: 

"We might believe that we really see Eriphyle 
chastely kiss his eyes. It is admirable. And 
yet," he adds, "there is no trace of this effect in 
Sacchini's score." 

Now Sacchini, for some reason or other which 
I do not know, did not use clarinets once in the 
whole score. Benoist was commissioned to add 
them when the work was revived, as he told me as 
we were chatting one day. Berlioz did not know 
this, and Benoist, who had not read Berlioz's 
Traite, knew nothing of the romantic musician's 
enthusiastic admiration of his work. These hap- 
pily turned thirds, although they weren't Sac- 
chini's, were, none the less, an excellent innova- 
tion. 

17 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Benoist was less happy when he was asked to 
put some life into Bellini's Romeo by using ear- 
splitting outbursts of drums, cymbals, and brass. 
During the same noise-loving period Costa, in 
London, gave Mozart's Don Juan the same treat- 
ment. He let loose throughout the opera the 
trombones which the author intentionally re- 
served for the end. Benoist ought to have re- 
fused to do such a barbarous piece of work. 
However, it had no effect in preventing the fail- 
ure of a worthless piece, staged at great expense 
by the management which had rejected Les Troy- 
ens. 

I was fifteen when I entered Halevy's class. 
I had already completed the study of harmony, 
counterpoint and fugue under Maleden's direc- 
tion. As I have said, his method was that taught 
at the Ecole Niedermeyer. Faure, Messager, 
Perilhou, and Gigot were trained there and they 
taught this method in turn. My class-work 
consisted in making attempts at vocal and instru- 
mental music and orchestration. My Reverie, 
La Feuille de Peuplier and many other things 
first appeared there. They have been entirely 

18 



THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

forgotten, and rightly, for my work was very un- 
even. 

At the end of his career Halevy was constantly 
writing opera and opera-comique which added 
nothing to his fame and which disappeared never 
to be revived after a respectable number of per- 
formances. He was entirely absorbed in his 
work and, as a result, he neglected his classes a 
good deal. He came only when he had time. 
The pupils, however, came just the same and 
gave each other instruction which was far less in- 
dulgent than the master's, for his greatest fault 
was an overweening good nature. Even when 
he was at class he couldn't protect himself from 
self-seekers. Singers of all sorts, male and fe- 
male, came for a hearing. One day it was Marie 
Cabel, still youthful and dazzling both in voice 
and beauty. Other days impossible tenors 
wasted his time. When the master sent word 
that he wasn't coming this happened often I 
used to go to the library, and there, as a matter 
of fact, I completed my education. The amount 
of music, ancient and modern, I devoured is be- 
yond belief. 

19 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

But it wasn't enough just to read music I 
needed to hear it. Of course there was the So- 
ciete des Concerts, but it was a Paradise, guarded 
by an angel with a flaming sword, in the form 
of a porter named Lescot. It was his duty to 
prevent the profane defiling the sanctuary. Les- 
cot was fond of me and appreciated my keen de- 
sire to hear the orchestra. As a result he made 
his rounds as slowly as possible in order to put 
me out only as a last resort. Fortunately for me, 
Marcelin de Fresne gave me a place in his box, 
which I was permitted to occupy for several years. 

I used to read and study the symphonies before 
I heard them and I saw grave defects in the So- 
ciete's vaunted execution. No one would stand 
them now, but then they passed unnoticed. I 
was naive and lacked discretion, and so I often 
pointed out these defects. It can be easily imag- 
ined what vials of wrath were poured on me. 

As far as the public was concerned, the great 
success of these concerts was due to the incom- 
parable charm of the depth of tone, which was at- 
tributed to the hall. The members of the So- 

20 



THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

ciete believed this, too, and they would let no 
other orchestra be heard there. This state of 
affairs lasted until Anton Rubinstein got permis- 
sion from the Minister of Fine Arts to give a con- 
cert there, accompanied by the Colonne orches- 
tra. The Societe fretted and fumed at this and 
threatened to give up its series of concerts. But 
the Societe was overruled and the concert was 
given. To the general surprise it was seen that 
another orchestra in the same hall produced an 
entirely different effect. The depth of tone 
which had been appreciated so highly, it was 
found, was due to the famous Societe itself, to 
the character of the instruments and the execu- 
tion. 

Nevertheless, the hall is excellent, although it 
is no longer adequate for the presentation of mod- 
ern compositions. But it is a marvellous place 
for the numerous concerts given by virtuosi, both 
singers and instrumentalists, accompanied by an 
orchestra, and for chamber music. Finally, the 
hall where France was introduced to the master- 
pieces of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, whose 

21 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

influence has been so profound, is a historic 
place. 

Numerous improvements in the administra- 
tion of the Conservatoire have heen introduced 
during the last few years. On the other hand, 
old and honored customs have disappeared and 
we can but regret their loss. From Auber's time 
on there was a pension connected with the Con- 
servatoire. Here the young singers who came 
from the provinces at eighteen found board and 
lodging, a regular life, and a protection from the 
temptations of a large city, so dangerous to fresh 
young voices. Bouhy, Lassalle, Capoul, Gail- 
hard and many others who have made the French 
stage famous came from this pension. 

We also used to have dramatic recitals which 
were excellent both for the performers and the 
audiences as they gave works which were not in 
the usual repertoire. In these recitals they gave 
MehuFs Joseph., which had disappeared from the 
stage for a long time. The beautiful choruses 
sung by the fresh voices of the pupils made sucK 
a success and the whole work was so enthusias- 
tically appkuded that it was revived at the Op- 

22 



OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

era-Comique and won back a success which it has 
never lost. We also heard there Gluck's Orphee 
long before that masterpiece was revived at the 
Theatre-Lyrique. Then there was Mehul's /r- 
ato, a curious and charming work which the 
Opera took up afterwards. And there, too, they 
gave the last act of Rossini's Otello. The temp- 
est in that act gave me the idea of the one which 
rumbles through the second act of Samson. 

When the hall was reconstructed, the stage 
was destroyed so that such performances are im- 
possible. But to make up for this, they installed 
a concert organ, a necessary adjunct for musical 
performances. 

Finally, in Auber's day and even in that of 
Ambroise Thomas, the director was master. No 
one had dreamed of creating a committee, which, 
under cover of the director's responsibility, 
would strangely diminish his authority. The 
only benefit from the new system has been the 
end of the incessant war which the musical crit- 
ics waged on the director. But that did no harm, 
either to the director or to the school, for the lat- 
ter kept on growing to such an extent that it 

23 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ought to have been enlarged long ago. The 
committee plan has won and the incident is 
closed. One may only hope that steps will be 
taken to make possible an increase in the number 
of pupils since so many candidates apply each 
year and so few are chosen. 

As everyone knows, we have been struck by 
a perfect mania for reforms, so there is no harm 
in proposing one for the Conservatoire. For- 
eign conservatoires have been studied and they 
want to introduce some of their features here. 
As a matter of fact, some of the foreign conserv- 
atoires are housed in magnificent palaces and 
their curricula are elaborated with a care worthy 
of admiration. Whether they turn out better 
pupils than we do is an open question. It is 
beyond dispute, however, that many young for- 
eigners come to us for their education. 

Some of the reformers are scandalized at the 
sight of a musician in charge of a school where 
elocution is taught. They forget that a musician 
may also be a man of letters the present direc- 
tor combines these qualifications and that it is 
improbable that it will be different in the future. 

24 



THE OLD CONSERVATOIRE 

The teachers of elocution have always been the 
best that could be found. Although M. Faure 
is a musician, he has known how to bring back 
the classes in tragedy to their original purpose. 
For a time they tended towards an objectionable 
modernism, for they substituted in their competi- 
tions modern prose for the classic verse. And 
the study of the latter is very profitable. 

Not only is there no harm in this union of elo- 
cution and music, but it would be useful if sing- 
ers and composers would take advantage of it to 
familiarize themselves with the principles of dic- 
tion, which, in my opinion, are indispensable to 
both. Instead, they distrust melody. Decla- 
mation is no longer wanted in operas, and the 
singers make the works incomprehensible by not 
articulating the words. The composers tend 
along the same lines, for they give no indication 
or direction of how they want the words spoken. 
All this is regrettable and should be reformed. 

As you see, I object to the mania for reform 
and end by suggesting reforms myself. Well, 
one must be of one's own time, and there is no 
escaping the contagion. 

25 



CHAPTER III 

VICTOR HUGO 

Everything in my youth seemed calculated to 
keep me far removed from romanticism. Those 
about me talked only of the great classics and I 
saw them welcome Ponsard's Lucrece as a sort of 
Minerva whose lance was to route Victor Hugo 
and his foul crew, of whom they never spoke 
save with detestation. 

Who was it, I wonder, who had the happy idea 
of giving me, elegantly bound, the first volumes 
of Victor Hugo's poems? I have forgotten who 
it was, but I remember what joy the vibrations of 
his lyre gave me. Until that time poetry had 
seemed to me something cold, respectable and 
far-away, and it was much later that the living 
beauty of our classics was revealed to me. I 
found myself at once stirred to the depths, and, 
as my temperament is essentially musical in 
everything, I began to sing them 

26 



VICTOR HUGO 

People Have told me ad nauseam (and they 
still tell me so) that beautiful verse is inimical to 
music, or rather that music is inimical to good 
verse; that music demands ordinary verse, 
rhymed prose, rather than verse, which is malle- 
able and reducible as the composer wishes. 
This generalization is assuredly true, if the music 
is written first and then adapted to the words, but 
that is not the ideal harmony between two arts 
which are made to supplement each other. Do 
not the rhythmic and sonorous passages of verse 
naturally call for song to set them off, since sing- 
ing is but a better method of declaiming them? 
I made some attempts at this and some of those 
which have been preserved are: Puisque id bos 
toute ame, Le Pas d'armes du roi Jean, and La 
Cloche. They were ridiculed at the time, but 
destined to some success later. Afterwards I 
continued with Si tu veux fcdsons un reve, which 
Madame Carvalho sang a good deal, Soiree en 
mer, and many others. 

The older I grew the greater became my devo- 
tion to Hugo. I waited impatiently for each 
new work of the poet and I devoured it as soon as 

27 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

it appeared. If I heard about me the spiteful 
criticisms of irritating critics, I was consoled by 
talking to Berlioz who honored me with his 
friendship and whose admiration for Hugo 
equalled mine. In the meantime my literary 
education was improving, and I made the ac- 
quaintance of the classics and found immortal 
beauties in them. My admiration for the clas- 
sics, however, did not diminish my regard for 
Hugo, for I never could see why it was unfaithful- 
ness to him not to despise Racine. It was fortu- 
nate for me that this was my view, for I have seen 
the most fiery romanticists, like Meurice and 
Vacquerie, revert to Racine in their later years, 
and repair the links in a golden chain which 
should never have been broken. 

The Empire fell and Victor Hugo came back 
to Paris. So I was going to have a chance of 
realizing my dream of seeing him and hearing his 
voice! But I dreaded meeting him almost as 
much as I wished to do so. Like Rossini Victor 
Hugo received his friends every evening. He 
came forward with both hands outstretched and 
told me what pleasure it was for him to see me at 

28 



VICTOR HUGO 

his house. Everything whirled around me! 

"I cannot say the same to you," I answered. 
"I wish I were somewhere else." He laughed 
heartily and showed that he knew how to over- 
come my bashfulness. I waited to hear some of 
the conversation which, according to my precon- 
ceived ideas, would be in the style of his latest ro- 
mance. However, it was entirely different; sim- 
ple polished phrases, entirely logical, came from 
that "mouth of mystery." 

I went to Hugo's evenings as often as possible, 
for I never could drink my fill of the presence of 
the hero of my youthful dreams. I had occasion 
to note to what an extent a fiery republican, a 
modern Juvenal, whose verses branded "kings" 
as if with a red hot iron, in his private life was 
susceptible to their flattery. The Emperor of 
Brazil had called on him, and the next day he 
could not stop talking about it constantly. 
Rather ostentatiously he called him "Don Pedro 
d' Alcantara." In French this would be "M. 
Pierre du Pont." Spanish inherently gives such 
florid sounds to ordinary names. This florid 
style is not frequent in French, and that is pre- 
29 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

cisely what Corneille and Victor Hugo succeeded 
in giving it. 

A slight incident unfortunately changed my 
relations with the great poet. 

"As long as Mile. Berlin was alive," he told 
me, "I would never permit La Esmeralda to be 
set to music; but if some musician should now 
ask for this poem, I would be glad to let him have 



it." 



The invitation was obvious. Yet, as is gen- 
erally known, this dramatic and lyric adaptation 
of the famous romance is not particularly happy. 
I was much embarrassed and I pretended not to 
understand, but I never dared to go to Hugo's 
house again. 

Years passed. In 1881 a subscription was 
taken up to erect a statue to the author of La 
Legende des Siecles, and they began to plan cele- 
brations for its dedication, particularly a big 
affair at the Trocadero. My imagination took 
fire at the idea, and I wrote my Hymne a Victor 
Hugo. 

As is well known, the master knew nothing at 
all about music, and the same was true of those 

30 



VICTOR HUGO 

around him. It is a matter of conjecture how 
the master and his followers happened to mistake 
some absurd and formless motif for one of Bee- 
thoven's sublime inspirations. Victor Hugo 
adapted the beautiful verses of Stella to this halt- 
ing motif. It was published as an appendix in 
the Chatiments, with a remark about the union of 
two geniuses, the fusion of the verse of a great 
poet with the admirable verse of a great musician. 
And the poet would have Mme. Drouet play this 
marvellous music on the piano from time to time! 
Tristia Herculis! 

As I wanted to put in my hymn something pe- 
culiar to Victor Hugo, which could not possibly 
be attributed to anyone else, I tried to introduce 
this motif of which he was so fond. And, by 
means of numerous tricks which every musician 
has up his sleeve, I managed to give it the form 
and character which it had lacked. 

The subscription did not go fast enough to suit 
the master, and he had it stopped. So I put my 
hymn in a drawer and waited for a better oppor- 
tunity. 

About this time M. Bruneau, the father of the 
31 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

well-known composer, conceived the idea of giv- 
ing spring concerts at the Trocadero. Bruneau 
came to see me and asked me if I had some un- 
published work which I would let him have. 
This was an excellent occasion for the presenta- 
tion of my Hymne, as it had been written with the 
Trocadero in mind. The performance was de- 
cided on and Victor Hugo was invited to come 
and hear it. 

The performance was splendid a large or- 
chestra,, the magnificent organ, eight harps, and 
eight trumpets sounding their flourishes in the 
organ loft, and a large chorus for the peroration 
of such splendor that it was compared to the set 
pieces at the close of a display of fireworks. The 
reception and ovation which the crowd gave the 
great poet, who rarely appeared in public, was 
beyond description. The honeyed incense of 
the organ, harps and trumpets was new to him 
and pleased his Olympian nostrils. 

"Dine with me to-night," he said to me. And 
from that day on, I often dined with him inform- 
ally with M. and Mme, Lockroy, Meurice, Vac- 
querie and other close friends. The fare was 

32 



yiCTOR HUGO 

idelightful and unpretentious, and the conversa- 
tion was the same. The master sat at the head 
of the table, with his grandson and grand- 
daughter on either side, saying little but always 
something apropos. Thanks to his vigor, his 
strong sonorous voice, and his quiet good humor, 
he did not seem like an old man, but rather like 
an ageless and immortal being, whom Time 
would never touch. His presence was just Jove- 
like enough to inspire respect without chilling 
his followers. These small gatherings, which I 
fully appreciated, are among the most precious 
recollections of my life. 

Time, alas, goes on, and that fine intellect, 
which had ever been unclouded, began to give 
signs of aberration. One day he said to an Ital- 
ian delegation, "The French are Italians; the 
Italians are French. French and Italians ought 
to go to Africa together and found the United 
States of Europe." 

The red rays of twilight announced the oncom- 
ing night. 

Those who saw them will never forget his 
grandiose funeral ceremonies, that casket under 

33 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the Arc de Triomphe, covered with a veil of 
crape, and that immense crowd which paid 
homage to the greatest lyric poet of the century* 

There was a committee to make musical prep- 
arations and I was a member. The most extraor- 
dinary ideas were proposed. One man wanted 
to have the Marseillaise in a minor key. An- 
other wanted violins, for "violins produce an ex- 
cellent effect in the open air." Naturally we got 
nowhere. 

The great procession started in perfect order, 
but, as in all long processions, gaps occurred. I 
was astonished to find myself in the middle of the 
Champs Elysees, in a wide open space, with no 
one near me but Ferdinand de Lesseps, Paul Bert, 
and a member of the Academic, whose name I 
shall not mention as he is worthy of all possible 
respect. 

De Lesseps was then at the height of his glory, 
and from time to time applause greeted him as he 
passed. 

Suddenly the Academician leaned over and 
whispered in my ear, 

"Evidently they are applauding us." 
34 



CHAPTER IV 

THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA- COMIQUE 

Young musicians often complain, and not 
Without reason, of the difficulties of their careers. 
It may, perhaps, be useful to remind them that 
their elders have not always had beds of roses, 
and that too often they have had to breast both* 
wind and sea after spending their best years in 
port, unable to make a start. These obstacles 
frequently are the result of the worst sort of ma- 
lignity, when it is for the best interest of every- 
one both of the theatres which rebuff them, and 
the public which ignores them that they be per- 
mitted to set out under full sail. 

In 1864 one of the most brilliant of the re- 
views had the following comments to make on 
this subject: 

Our real duty and it is a true kindness is 
not to encourage them (beginners) but to dis- 

35 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

courage them. In art a vocation is everything, 
and a vocation needs no one, for God aids. 
What use is it to encourage them and their efforts 
when the public obstinately refuses to pay any 
attention to them? If an act is ordered from 
one of them, it fails to go. Two or three years 
later the same thing is tried again with the same 
result. No theatre, even if it were four times as 
heavily subsidized as the Theatre-Lyrique, could 
continue to exist on such resources. So the re- 
sult is that they turn to accredited talent and call 
on such men from outside as Gounod, Felicien 
David and Victor Masse. The younger compos- 
ers at once shout treason and scandal. Then, 
they select masterpieces by Mozart and Weber 
and there are the same outcries and recrimina- 
tions. In the final analysis where are these 
young composers of genius? Who are they and 
what are their names? Let them go to the or- 
chestra and hear Le Nozze di Figaro, Oberon, 
Freischutz and Orphee ... we are doing some- 
thing for them by placing such models before 
them. 

The young composers who were thus politely 
invited to be seated included, among others, 
Bizet, Delibes, Massenet, and the writer of these 

36 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

lines. Massenet and I would have been satis- 
fied with writing a ballet for the Opera. He pro- 
posed the Rat Catcher from an old German tale, 
while I proposed Une null de Cleopatra on the 
text of Theophile Gautier. They refused us the 
honor, and, when they consented to order a ballet 
from Delibes, they did not dare to trust him with 
the whole work. They let him do only one act 
and the other was given to a Hungarian com- 
poser. As the experiment succeeded, they al- 
lowed Delibes to write, without assistance, his 
marvellous Coppelia. But Delibes had the le- 
gitimate ambition of writing a grand opera. He 
never reached so far. 

Bizet and I were great friends and we told each 
other all our troubles. "You're less unfortunate 
than I am," he used to tell me. "You can do 
something besides things for the stage. I can't. 
That's my oaly resource." 

When Bizet put on the delightful Pecheurs de 
Perles he was helped by powerful influences 
there was a general outcry and an outbreak of 
abuse. The Devil himself straight from Hell 
would not have received a worse reception. 

37 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Later on, as we know, Carmen was received in the 
same way. 

I was, indeed, able to do something beside 
work for the stage, and it was just that which 
closed the stage to me. I was a writer of sym- 
phonies, an organist and a pianist, so how could 
I be capable of writing an opera ! The qualities 
which go to make a pianist were in a particularly 
bad light in the greenroom. Bizet played the 
piano admirably, but he never dared to play in 
public for fear of making his position worse. 

I suggested to Carvalho that I write a Macbeth 
for Madame Viardot. Naturally enough he pre- 
ferred to put on Verdi's Macbeth. It was an 
utter failure and cost him thirty thousand francs. 

They tried to interest a certain princess, a 
patron of the arts, in my behalf. "What," she 
replied, "isn't he satisfied with his position? 
He plays the organ at the Madeleine and the pi- 
ano at my house. Isn't that enough for him?" 

But that wasn't enough for me, and to over- 
come the obstacles, I caused a scandal. At the 
age of twenty-eight I competed for the Prix de 
Rome! They did not give it to me on the ground 

38 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

that I didn't need it, but the day after the award, 
Auber, who was very fond of me, asked Carvalho 
for a libretto for me. Carvalho gave me Le Tim- 
bre d 9 Argent, which he didn't know what to do 
with as several musicians had refused to touch it. 
There were good reasons for this, for, despite an 
excellent foundation for the music, the libretto 
had serious faults. I demanded that Barbier 
and Carre, the authors, should make important 
changes, which they did at once. Then, I retired 
to the heights of Louveciennes and in two months 
wrote the score of the five acts which the work 
had at first. 

I had to wait two years before Carvalho would 
consent to hear the music. Finally, worn out by 
my importunities, they decided to get rid of me, 
so Carvalho invited me to dine with him and to 
bring my score. After dinner I went to the 
piano. Carvalho was on one side and Madame 
Carvalho on the other. Both were very pleas- 
ant and charming, but the real meaning of this 
friendliness did not escape me. 

They had no doubts about what awaited them. 
Both really loved music and little by little they 

39 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

fell under the spell. Serious attention suc- 
ceeded the false friendliness. At the end they 
were enthusiastic. Carvalho declared that he 
would have the study of the work begun as soon 
as possible; it was a masterpiece; it would have a 
great success, but to assure this success, Madame 
Carvalho must sing the principal part. 

Now the principal part in Le Timbre d* Argent 
is that of a dancer and the singer's part is greatly 
subordinate. To remedy this they decided to 
develop the part. Barbier invented a pretty sit- 
uation to bring in the passage Bonheur est chose 
legere, but that wasn't enough. Barbier and 
Carre racked their brains without finding any so- 
lution of the difficulty, for on the stage as else- 
where there are problems that can't be solved. 

Between times they tried to find a dancer of the 
first rank. Finally, they found one who had re- 
cently left the Opera, although still at the height 
of her beauty and talent. And they continued to 
seek a way to make the part of Helene worthy of 
Madame Carvalho. 

The famous director had one mania. He 
wanted to collaborate in every work he staged* 

40 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

Even a work hallowed by time and success had to 
bear his mark; much greater were his reasons for 
interpolating in a new work. He would an- 
nounce brusquely that the period or the country 
in which the action of the work took place must 
be changed. He tormented us for a long time 
to make the dancer into a singer on his wife's 
account. Later, he wanted to introduce a sec- 
ond dancer. With the exception of the prologue 
and epilogue the action of the piece takes place in 
a dream 5 and he took upon himself the invention 
of the most bizarre combinations. He even pro- 
posed to me one day to introduce wild animals. 
Another time he wanted to cut out all the music 
with the exception of the choruses and the danc- 
er's part, and have the rest played by a dramatic 
company. Later, as they were rehearsing Ham- 
let at the Opera and it was rumored that Mile. 
Nilsson was going to play a water scene, he 
wanted Madame Carvalho to go to the bottom of 
a pool to find the fatal belL 

Foolishness of this kind took up two years. 

Finally, we gave up the idea of Mme. Carval- 
ho's cooperation. The part of Helene was 

41 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

given to beautiful Mile. Schroeder and the re- 
hearsals began. They were interrupted by the 
failure of the Theatre-Lyrique. 

Shortly afterwards Perrin asked for Le Timbre 
d* Argent for the Opera. The adaptation of the 
work for the large stage at the Opera necessi- 
tated important modifications. The whole of 
the dialogue had to be set to music and the 
authors went to work on it. Perrin gave us 
Madame Carvalho for Helene and Faure for Spi- 
ridion, but he wanted to burlesque the part for 
the tenor and give it to Mile. Wertheimber. He 
wanted to engage her and had no other part for 
her. This was impossible. After several dis- 
cussions Perrin yielded to the obstinate refusals 
of the authors, but I saw clearly from his attitude 
that he would never play our work. 

About that time du Locle took over the man- 
agement of the Opera-Comique. He saw that 
Perrin, who was his uncle, had decided not to 
stage Le Timbre d 9 Argent and asked me for it. 

This meant another metamorphosis for the 
work and new and considerable work for the mu- 
sician. And this work was by no means easy. 

42 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

Until this time Barbier and Carre had been as 
close friends as Orestes and Pylades, but now 
they had a falling out. What one proposed, the 
other systematically refused. One lived in 
Paris; the other in the country. I went from 
Paris to the country and from the country to 
Paris trying to get these warring brothers to 
agree* This going to and fro lasted all summer, 
and then the temporary enemies came to an un- 
derstanding and became as friendly as ever. 

We seemed to be nearly at the end of our 
troubles. Du Locle had found a wonderful 
dancer in Italy on whom we depended, but the 
dancer turned out not to be one at all. She was 
a mime, and did not dance. 

As there was no time to look for another 
dancer that season du Locle, to keep me patient, 
had me write with Louis Gallet La Princesse 
Jaune, with which I made my debut on the stage. 
I was thirty-five ! This harmless little work was 
received with the fiercest hostility. "It is impos- 
sible to tell," wrote Jouvin, a much feared critic 
of the time, "in what key or in what time the over- 
ture is written." And to show me how utterly 

43 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

wrong I was, he told me that the public was "a 
compound of angles and shadows." His prose 
was certainly more obscure than my music. 

Finally, a real dancer was engaged in Italy. 
It seemed as though nothing more could prevent 
the appearance of the unfortunate Timbre. "I 
can't believe it," I said. "Some catastrophe will 
put us off again." 

War came! 

When that frightful crisis was at an end, the 
dancer was re-engaged. The parts were read to 
the artists, and the next day Amede Achard threw 
up his role, declaring that it belonged to grand 
opera and was beyond the powers of an opera- 
comique tenor. It is well known that he ended 
his career at the Opera. 

Another tenor had to be found, but tenors are 
rare birds and we were unable to get one. To 
use the dancer he had engaged du Locle had 
Gallet and Guiraud improvise a short act, Le Ko- 
bold, which met with great success. The dancer 
was exquisite. Then du Locle lost interest in 
Le Timbre d* Argent; and then came the failure 
of the Opera-Comique. 

44 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

During all these tribulations I was preparing 
Samson, although I could find no one who even 
wanted to hear me speak of it. They all thought 
that I must be mad to attempt a Biblical subject. 
I gave a hearing of the second act at my house, 
but no one understood it at all. Without the aid 
of Liszt, who did not know a note of it, but who 
engaged me to finish it and put it on at Weimar, 
Samson would never have seen the light. After- 
wards it was refused in succession by Halanzier, 
Vaucorbeil, and Ritt and Gailhard, who decided 
to take it only after they had heard it sung by that 
admirable singer Rosine Bloch. 

But to return to Le Timbre d? Argent. I was 
again on the street with my score under my arm. 
About that time Vizentini revived the Theatre- 
Lyrique. His first play was Paul et Virginie, a 
wonderful success, and he was preparing for the 
close of the season another work which he liked. 
They were kindly disposed to me at the Ministry 
of Fine Arts and they interested themselves in my 
misfortunes. So they gave the Theatre-Lyrique 
a small subsidy on condition that they play my 
work. I came to the theatre as one wfro has med- 

45 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

died and I quickly recognized the discomforts of 
my position. First, there was a search for a 
singer; then, for a tenor, and they tried several 
without success. I found a tenor who, accord- 
ing to all reports, was of the first rank, hut, after 
several days of negotiation, the matter was 
dropped. I learned later from the artist that the 
manager intended to engage him for only four 
performances, evidently planning that the work 
should be played only four times. 

The choice finally fell on Blum. He had a 
fine voice, and was a perfect singer but no actor. 
Indeed he said he didn't want to be an actor; his 
ideal was to appear in white gloves. Each day 
brought new bickerings. They made cuts de- 
spite my wishes; they left me at the mercy of the 
insubordination and rudeness of the stage man- 
ager and the ballet master, who would not listen 
to my most modest suggestions. I had to pay 
the cost of extra musicians in the wings myself. 
Some stage settings which I wanted for the pro- 
logue were declared impossible I have seen 
them since in the Tales of Hoffman. 

46 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

Furthermore, the orchestra was very ordinary. 
There had to be numerous rehearsals which they 
did not refuse me, but they took advantage of 
them to spread the report that my music was un- 
playable. A young journalist who is still alive 
(I will not name him) wrote two advance notices 
which were intended to pave the way for the fail- 
ure of my work. 

At the last moment the director saw that he 
had been on the wrong tack and that he might 
have a success. As they had played fairyland 
in the theatre in the Square des-Arts-et-Metiers, 
he had at hand all the needed material to give me 
a luxurious stage-setting without great expense. 
Mile. Caroline Salla was given the part of Helene. 
With her beauty and magnificent voice she was 
certainly remarkable. But the passages which 
had been written for the light high soprano of 
Madame Carvalho were poorly adapted for a dra- 
matic soprano. They concluded, therefore, that 
I didn't know how to write vocal music. 

In spite of everything the work was markedly 
successful, the natural result of a splendid per- 

47 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

f ormance in which two stars Melchissedech and 
Mile. Adeline Theodore, at present teacher of 
dancing at the Opera shone. 

Poor Vizentini! His opinion of me has 
changed greatly since that time. We were made 
to understand and love each other, so he has be- 
come, with years, one of my best and most de- 
voted friends. He first produced my ballet 
Javotte at the Grand-Theatre in Lyons, which the 
Monnaie in Brussels had ordered and then re- 
fused. He had dreams of directing the Opera- 
Comique and installing Le Timbre <T Argent 
there. Fate willed otherwise. 

We have seen how the young French school 
was encouraged under the Empire. The situa- 
tion has improved and the old state of affairs has 
never returned. But we find more than one 
analogy between the old point of view and the one 
that was revealed not long ago when the French 
musicians complained that they were more or less 
sacrificed in favor of their foreign contempora- 
ries. At bottom it is the same spirit in a modi- 
fied form. 

To resume. As everyone knows, the way to 
48 



THE HISTORY OF AN OPERA-COMIQUE 

become a blacksmith is by working at a forge. 
Sitting in the shade does not give the experience 
which develops talent. We should never have 
known the great days of the Italian theatre, if 
Rossini, Donizetti, Bellini, and Verdi had had to 
undergo our regime. If Mozart had had to wait 
until he was forty to produce his first opera, we 
should never have had Don Giovanni or Le Nozze 
di Figaro, for Mozart died at thirty-five. 

The policy imposed on Bizet and Delibes cer- 
tainly deprived us of several works which would 
now be among the glories of the repertoire at the 
Opera and the Opera-Comique. That is an ir- 
reparable misfortune; one which we cannot suf- 
ficiently deplore. 



49 



CHAPTER V 

LOUIS GALLET 

As Dejanire, cast in a new form, has again ap- 
peared in the vast frame of the Opera stage, I may 
be allowed to recall my recollections of my friend 
and collaborator, Louis Gallet, the diligent and 
chosen companion of my best years, whose sup- 
port was so dear and precious to me. Collabora- 
tion for some reason unknown to me is depre- 
cated. Opera, it is said, should spring from the 
brain like Minerva, fully armed. So much the 
better if such divine intellects can be found, but 
they are rare and always will be. For dramatic 
and literary art on the one hand and musical art 
on the other require different powers, which are 
not ordinarily found in the same person. 

I first met Louis Gallet in 1871. Camille du 
Locle, who was the manager of the Opera-Com- 
ique at the time, could not put on Le Timbre 
d 9 Argent, and while he waited for better days, 

50 



LOUIS GALLET 

which never came, to do that, he offered me a 
one-act work. He proposed Louis Gallet as my 
collaborator, although I had not known him until 
then. "You were made to understand each 
other," he told me. Gallet was then employed 
in some capacity at the Beaujon hospital and 
lived near me in the Faubourg Saint-Honore. 
We soon formed the habit of seeing each other 
every day. Du Locle had judged aright. We 
had the same tastes in art and literature. We 
were equally averse to whatever is too theatrical 
and also to whatever is not sufficiently so, to the 
commonplace and the too extravagant. We 
both despised easy success and we understood 
each other wonderfully, Gallet was not a mu- 
sician, but he enjoyed and understood music, and 
he criticised with rare good taste. 

Japan had recently been opened to Europeans. 
Japan was fashionable; all they talked about was 
Japan, it was a real craze. So the idea of writing 
a Japanese piece occurred to us. We submitted 
the idea to du Locle, but he was afraid of an en- 
tirely Japanese stage setting. He wanted us to 
soften the Japanese part, and it was he, I think, 

51 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

who had the idea of making it half Japanese and 
half Dutch, the way the slight work La Princesse 
Jaune was cast. 

That was only a beginning and in our daily 
talks we sketched the most audacious projects. 
The leading concerts of the time did not balk at 
performing large vocal works, as they too often 
do to-day to the great detriment of the variety of 
their programmes. We then thought that we 
were at the beginning of the prosperity of French 
oratorio which only needed encouragement to 
flourish. I read by chance in an old Bible this 
wonderful phrase, 

"And it repented the Lord that he had made 
man on the earth," and so I proposed to Gallet 
that we do a Deluge. At first he wanted to intro- 
duce characters. "No," I said, "put the Bible 
narrative into simple verse, and I will do the 
rest." We know with what care and success he 
accomplished his delicate task. Meanwhile he 
gave Massenet the texts for Marie-Madeleine and 
Le Roi de Lahore, and these two works created a 
great stir in the operatic world. 

We had dreams of historical opera, for we were 
52 



LOUIS GALLET 

quite without the prejudice against this form of 
drama which afflicts the present school But I 
was not persona grata to the managers and I did 
not know at what door to knock, when one of my 
friends, Aime Gros, took the management of the 
Grand-Theatre at Lyons and asked me for a work. 
This was a fine opportunity and we grasped it* 
We put together, with difficulty but with infinite 
zest, our historical opera, Etienne Marcel, in 
which Louis Gallet endeavored to respect as far 
as is possible in a theatrical work the facts of 
history. Despite illustrious examples to the 
contrary he did not believe that it was legitimate 
to attribute to a character who has actually lived 
acts and opinions that are entirely fanciful. I 
was in full agreement with him in that as in so 
many other things. I go even farther and can- 
not accustom myself to the queer sauces in which 
legendary characters are often served. It seems 
to me that the legend is the interesting thing, and 
not the character, and that the latter loses all its 
value when the legend which surrounds it is de- 
stroyed. But everyone knows that I am a crank. 
Some time after my Henri VIII, in which Vau- 
53 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

corbeil had imposed another collaborator on me, 
Ritt asked me for a new work. We were looking 
about for a subject, when Gallet came to my 
house and timidly, as if fearing a rebuff, proposed 
Benvenuto Cellini. I had thought of that for a 
long time, and the idea had come to me of putting 
into musical form that fine drama, which had had 
its hours of glory, where Melingue modeled the 
statue of Hebe before the populace. I, there- 
fore, accepted the suggestion with pleasure. 
This enterprise brought me in touch with Paul 
Meurice, whom I had known in my childhood, 
when he was wooing Mile. Granger, his first wife 
and an intimate friend of my mother's. Paul 
Meurice revealed a secret to me: that the romance 
Ascanio, attributed to Alexander Dumas, had 
been entirely written by Meurice. The work 
met with a great success, and out of gratitude, 
Dumas offered to help Meurice in constructing a 
drama from the romance, which was to be signed 
by Meurice alone. So it is easy for one who 
knows Dumas's dramas to find traces of his handi- 
work in Benvenuto Cellini. 

It was not particularly easy to make an opera 
54 



LOUIS GALLET 

out of the play, and Gallet and I worked together 
at it with considerable difficulty. We soon saw 
that we should have to eliminate the famous scene 
of the casting of the statue. When we reached 
this point in the play, Benvenuto had already 
done a good deal of singing, and this scene with 
its violence seemed certain to exceed the strength 
of the most valiant artist. 

In connection with our Proserpine, I have 
been accused of supposing that Vacquerie had 
genius. It would be too much to say that he had 
genius, but he certainly had great talent. His 
prose showed a classical refinement, and his 
poetry, in spite of fantastic passages which no 
one could admire, was sonorous in tone, con- 
tained precious material, and was both interest- 
ing and highly individual. What allured me in 
Proserpine was the amount of inner emotion 
there was in the drama, which is very advantag- 
eous to the music. Music gives expression to 
feelings which the characters cannot express, and 
accentuates and develops the picturesqueness of 
the piece; it makes acceptable what would not 
even exist without it. 

55 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Vacquerie approved highly the convent scene 
which Gallet invented. This introduced a quiet 
and peaceful note amidst the violence of the or- 
iginal work. Gallet wrote a sonnet in Alexan- 
drine verse for Sabatino's declaration of his love. 
I was unable to set this to music, for the twelve 
feet embarrassed me and prevented my getting 
into my stride. As I did not know what else to 
do, I took the sonnet and hy main force reduced 
the verse to ten feet with a caesura at the fifth 
foot. I took this to my dear collaborator in fear 
and trembling, and, as I had feared, he at once 
fell into the depths of despair. 

"That was the best thing in my work," he said. 
"I nursed and caressed that sonnet, and now you 
have ruined it." 

In the face of this despair, I screwed up my 
courage. As I had previously cut down the 
verse, I now tried lengthening out the music. 
Then, I sang both versions to the disconsolate 
poet. 

And what a miracle! He was altogether rec- 
onciled, approved both versions, and did not 
know which one to choose. We ended with a 

56 



LOUIS GALLET 

patchwork. The two quatrains are in verses of 
ten feet, and the two tiercels in Alexandrine 
metre. 

Outside of our work, too, our relations were 
delightful. We wrote to each other constantly 
in both prose and verse; we bombarded each 
other with sonnets ; his letters were sometimes or- 
namented with water colors, for he drew very 
well and one of his joys was to cover white paper 
with color. Gallet drew the sketches for the 
desert in Le Roi de Lahore and the cloister in 
Proserpine. 

When Madame Adam founded the Nouvelle 
Revue she offered me the position of musical 
critic, which I did not think I ought to accept. 
She did not know where to turn. "Take Gal- 
let," I advised her. "He is an accomplished 
man of letters. He is not a musician in the sense 
that he has studied music, but he has the soul of a 
musician, which is worth much more." Ma- 
dame Adam followed my advice and found it 
good. 

At this period, under the guise of Wagnerism, 
the wildest theories and the most extravagant as- 

57 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

sertions were current in musical criticism. Gal- 
let was naturally well poised and independent 
and he did not do as the rest did. Instead he 
opposed them, but from unwillingness to give 
needless offense he displayed marked tact and 
discretion in his criticisms. This did him no 
good, however, for it aroused no sentiment of 
gratitude, and without giving him credit for a lit' 
erary style that was rare among librettists, his 
contemporaries received each of his works with a 
hostility entirely devoid of either justice or mercy. 
Gallet felt this hostility keenly. He felt that he 
did not deserve it, since he took so much care in 
his work and put so much courtesy into his crit- 
icism. The blank verse he used in Thais with 
admirable regard for color and harmony, count- 
ing on the music to take the place of the rhyme, 
was not appreciated. This verse was free from 
assonance and the banalities which it draws into 
operatic works, but it kept the rhythm and sonor- 
ous sound which is far removed from prose. 
That was the period when there was nothing but 
praise for Alfred Ernst's gibberish, though that 
was an insult alike to the French language and 

58 



LOUIS GALLET 

the masterpieces he had the temerity to translate. 
Gallet used the same blank verse in Dejanire, al- 
though its use here was more debatable, but he 
handled it with surprising skill. Now that this 
text has been set to music, it shows its full beauty. 

Louis Gallet devoted a large part of his time 
to administrative duties, for he was successively 
treasurer and manager of hospitals. Neverthe- 
less he produced works in abundance. He left a 
record of no less than forty operatic librettos, 
plays, romances, memoirs, pamphlets, and innu- 
merable articles. I wish I knew what to say 
about the man himself, his unwearying good- 
ness, his loyalty, his scrupulousness, his good 
humor, his originality, his continual common 
sense, and his intellect, alert to everything un- 
usual and interesting. 

What good talks we used to have as we dined 
under an arbor in the large garden which was his 
delight at Lariboisiere! I used to take him 
seeds, and he made amusing botanical experi- 
ments with them. 

He was seriously ill at one period of his life. 
He was wonderfully nursed by his wife who 

59 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

was a saint and he endured prolonged and atro- 
cious sufferings with the patience of a saint. 
He watched the growth of his fatal disease with a 
stoicism worthy of the sages of antiquity and he 
had no illusion ahout the implacable illness 
which slowly but surely would result in his pre- 
mature death. A constantly increasing deafness 
was his greatest trouble. This cruel infirmity 
had made frightful progress when, in 1899, the 
Arenes de Beziers opened its doors for the second 
time to Dejanire. In spite of everything, includ- 
ing his ill health which made the trip very pain- 
ful, he wanted to see his work once more. He 
heard nothing, however neither the artists, the 
choruses, nor even the applause of the several 
thousand spectators who encored it enthusiastic- 
ally. A little later he passed on, leaving in his 
friends' hearts and at the work-tables of his col- 
laborators a void which it is impossible to fill. 



60 



%!' it* -'f- ffi ' t : ''^5 " t * 
t*wuwi*- : (.--'-& m:- .m- .1 







CHAPTER VI 

HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

Oceans of ink have been spilled in discussing 
the question of whether the subjects of operas 
should be taken from history or mythology, and 
the question is still a mooted one. To my mind 
it would have been better if the question had 
never been raised, for it is of little consequence 
what the answer is. The only things worth 
while are whether the music is good and the work 
interesting. But Tannhauser, Lohengrin, Tris- 
tan and Siegfried appeared and the question 
sprang up. The heroes of mythology, we are 
told, are invested with a prestige which historical 
characters can never have. Their deeds lose sig- 
nificance and in their place we have their feel- 
ings, their emotions, to the great benefit of the 
operas. After these works, however, Hans 
Sachs (Die Meistersinger) appeared, and al- 

61 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

though he is not mythical at all he is a fine figure 
nevertheless. But in this case the plot is of little 
account, for the interest lies mainly in the emo- 
tions the only thing, it appears, which music 
with its divine language ought to express. 

It is true that music makes it possible to sim- 
plify dramatic action and it gives a chance, as 
well, for the free expression and play of senti- 
ments, emotions and passions. In addition, 
music makes possible pantomimic scenes which 
could not be done otherwise, and the music itself 
flows more easily under such conditions. But 
that does not mean that such conditions are in- 
dispensable for music. Music in its flexibility 
and adaptability offers inexhaustible resources. 
Give Mozart a fairy tale like the Magic Flute or a 
lively comedy such as Le Nozze di Figaro and he 
creates without effort an immortal masterpiece. 

It is a question whether there is any essential 
difference between history and mythology. His- 
tory is made up of what probably happened; 
mythology of what probably did not happen. 
There are myths in history and history in myths. 
Mythology is merely the old form of history. 

62 



HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

Every myth is rooted in truth. And we have to 
seek for this truth in the fable, just as we try to 
reconstruct extinct animals from the remains 
Time has preserved to us. Behind the story of 
Prometheus we see the invention of fire; behind 
the loves of Ceres and Triptolemus the invention 
of the plow and the beginnings of agriculture. 
The adventures of the Argonauts show us the first 
attempts at voyages of exploration and the dis- 
covery of gold mines. Volumes have been writ- 
ten about the truths behind the fables, and ex- 
planations have been found for the strangest facts 
of mythology, even for the metamorphoses which 
Ovid described so poetically. 

Halfway between history and mythology come 
the sacred writings. Each race has its own. 
Ours are the Old and New Testament. Many 
believe that these books are myths; a larger num- 
ber the Believers that they are history, Sa- 
cred History, the only true history the only one 
about which it is not permitted to express a doubt. 
If you want a proof of this, recall that not so 
many years ago a clergyman in the Church of 
England was censured by his ecclesiastical supe- 

63 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

riors for daring to say in a sermon that the Ser- 
pent in the Garden of Eden was symbolical and 
not a real creature. 

And the ecclesiastical authorities were right. 
The basis of Christianity is the Redemption 
the incarnation and sacrifice of God himself to 
blot out the stain of the first great sin and also to 
open the Kingdom of Heaven to men. That or- 
iginal sin was Adam's fall, when he followed the 
example of Eve, a victim of the Serpent's treach- 
erous counsels, and disobeyed the command not 
to taste the Forbidden Fruit. Eliminate the Gar- 
den of Eden, the Serpent, the Forbidden Fruit, 
and the entire fabric of Christianity crumbles. 

If we turn to profane history and take any his- 
torical work, we find that the facts are told in 
such a way that they seem to us beyond dispute. 
But if we see the same facts from the pen of an- 
other historian, we no longer recognize them. 
The reason is that a writer almost never under- 
takes the task of wrestling with the giant, History, 
unless he is impelled to do so by a preconceived 
idea, by a general conception, or a system he 
wants to establish. And whether he wants to or 

64 



HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

not, he sees the facts in a light favorable to his 
preconceived idea, and observes them through 
prisms which increase or diminish their import- 
ance at his will. Then, however great his dis- 
cernment and however strong his desire to reach 
the truth, it is doubtful if he ever will. In his- 
tory, as elsewhere, absolute truth escapes man- 
kind. Louis XIV, Louis XV, Madame de Main- 
tenon, Madame de Pompadour, Louis XVI, even 
Napoleon and Josephine, so near our own times, 
are already quasi-mythical characters. The 
Louis XIII of Marion de Lorme seemed until 
very lately to be accurate, but recent discoveries 
show us that he was quite different. 

Napoleon III reigned only yesterday, but his 
picture is already painted in different tints. My 
entire youth was passed in his reign and my recol- 
lections represent him neither as the monster de- 
picted by Victor Hugo nor the kind sympathetic 
sovereign of present-day stories. 

There has been a great deal of discussion of 
the causes which brought on the War of 1870. 
We know all that was said and done during the 
last days of that crisis, but will anyone ever know 

65 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

what was hidden in the minds of the sovereigns, 
the ministers, and the ambassadors? Will it 
ever be known whether the Emperor provoked 
Gramont or Gramont the Emperor? Did they 
even know themselves? There is one thing the 
most discerning historian can never reach the 
depths of the human soul. 

We may, however, learn the secrets of the 
tomb. It was asserted for a long time that the 
remains of Voltaire and Rousseau had been ex- 
humed, desecrated, and thrown into the sewers* 
Victor Hugo wrote a wonderful account of this 
an account such as only he could write. One 
fine day doubt about this occurrence popped up 
unexpectedly. After waiting a long time it was 
decided to get to the heart of the matter, and they 
finally opened the coffins of the two great men. 
They were peacefully sleeping their last sleep. 
The deed never took place; its history was a 
myth. 

In this connection Victor Hugo's credulity may 
be mentioned, for it was astonishing in a man cf 
such colossal genius. He believed in the most 
incredible things, as the "Man in the Iron Mask," 

66 



fflSTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

the twin brothei of Louis XIV; in the octopus 
that has no mouth and feeds itself through its 
arms; and in the reality of the Japanese sirens 
which the Japanese were said to make out of an 
ape and a fish. He had some excuse for the si- 
rens as the Academic des Sciences helieved in 
them for a short time. 

If what is called history is so near mythology 
as, many times, to be confounded with it, what 
about romance and the historical drama in which 
events, entirely imaginative, must of necessity 
find a place? What about the long-drawn-out 
conversations in books and on the stage that are 
attributed to historical persons? What about 
the actions attributed to them, which need not 
be true but only seem to be so? The supernat- 
ural element is the only thing lacking to make 
such works mythological in every way. 

Now the supernatural lends itself admirably 
to expression in music and music finds in the 
supernatural a wealth of resources. But these 
resources are by no means indispensable. What 
music must have above all are emotions and pas- 
sions laid bare and set in action by what we term 

67 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the situation. And where can one find more or 
better situations than in history? 

From the time of Lulli until the end of the 
Eighteenth Century French opera was legendary, 
ithat is to say, it was mythological in character 
and was not, as has been pretended, limited to 
the depiction of emotion and the inner feelings 
in order to avoid contingencies. The real mo- 
tive was to find in fables material for a spectacle. 
Tragedy, as we know, does not do this, for it can 
be developed only with considerable difficulty 
when the stage is crowded with actors. On the 
contrary, opera, which is free in its movements 
ajid can fill a vast stage, seeks for pomp, display 
and haloes in which gods and goddesses appear, 
in fact all that can be put into a stage-setting. 
If they did not use local-color, it was because local 
color had not been invented. Finally, as we all 
get tired of everything, so they tired of mythol- 
ogy. Then the historical work was adopted and 
appeared on the stage with success, as is well 
known. The historical method had no rival un- 
til Robert le Diable rather timidly brought back 

68 



HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

the legendary element which triumphed later in 
the work of Richard Wagner. 

In the meantime Les Huguenots succeeded 
Robert le Diable and for half a century this was 
the bright particular star of historical opera. 
Even now, although its traditions have largely 
been forgotten and although its workmanship ia 
rather inferior to that of a later time, this memor- 
able work nevertheless shines, like the setting 
sun, surprisingly brilliantly. The several gen- 
erations who admired this work were not alto- 
gether wrong. There is no necessity to class* 
this brilliant success as a failure, because Robert 
Schumann, who knew nothing about the stage, 
denied its worth. It is surprising that Berlioz's 
judgment has not been set against Schumann's. 
Berlioz showed his enthusiasm for Les Huguenots 
in his famous treatise on instrumentation. 

The great public is little interested in technical 
polemics and is faithful to the old successes. 
Although little by little success has come to op- 
eras based on legends, there still remains a taste 
for operas with a historical background. This is 
not without a reason for as an authoritative critic 

69 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

has said : "A historical drama may contain lyric 
possibilities far greater than most of the poor, 
weak mythological librettos on which composers 
waste their strength, fully persuaded that by do- 
ing so they cause "the holy spirit of Bayreuth to 
descend upon them." 

And they never would have dreamed of being 
mythological, if their god, instead of turning to 
Scandinavian mythology, had followed his orig- 
inal intention of dramatizing the exploits of Fred- 
erick Barbarossa. In his youth he was not op- 
posed to historical opera, for he eulogized La 
Musette de Portici, La Juive, and La Reine de 
Chypre. He made some justifiable criticisms of 
the libretto of the last work, although he ad- 
mitted that the composer had contrived to write 
beautiful passages. 

"We cannot praise Halevy too highly," he 
wrote, "for the firmness with which he resists 
every temptation, to which many of his contem- 
poraries succumb, to steal easy applause by rely- 
ing blindly on the talent of the singers. On the 
contrary, he demands that his virtuosi, even the 
most famous of them, shall subordinate them- 

70 



HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

selves to the lofty inspiration of his Muse. He 
attains this result by the simplicity and truth he 
knows how to stamp on dramatic melodies." 

This is what Richard Wagner said ahout La 
Juive in 1842* 

Fortunately we no longer demand that operas 
be mythological, for if we did we should have to 
condemn the famous Russian operas and that is 
out of the question. However, the method of 
treatment is still in dispute and this question is 
involved. One method of treatment is admitted 
and another is not and it is extremely difficult to 
tell what is what. 

I am now going to do a little special pleading 
for my Henri VIII, which, it would seem, is not in 
the proper manner. Not that I want to defend 
the music or to protest against the criticisms it 
has inspired, for that is not done. But I may, 
perhaps, be permitted to speak of the piece itself 
and to tell how the music was adapted to it. 

According to the critics it would seem that the 
whole of Henri VIII is superficial and without 
depth, en fagade; that the souls of the characters 
are not revealed, and that the King, at first all 

71 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

sugary sweetness, suddenly becomes a monster 
without any preparation for, or explanation of, 
the change. 

In this connection let us consider Boris God- 
ounof, for there is a historical drama suited to its 
music. I saw Boris Godounoj with considerable 
interest. I heard pleasant and impressive pas- 
sages, and others less so. In one scene I saw an 
insignificant friar who suddenly becomes the Em- 
peror in the next scene. One entire act is made 
up of processions, the ringing of bells, popular 
songs, and dazzling costumes. In another scene 
a nurse tells pretty stories to the children in her 
charge. Then there is a love duet, which is 
neither introduced nor has any relationship to the 
development of the work; an incomprehensible 
evening entertainment, and, finally, funeral 
scenes in which Chaliapine was admirable. It 
was not my fault if I did not discover in all that 
the inner life, the psychology, the introductions, 
and the explanations which they complain they 
do not find in Henri V1IL 

"To Henry VIII," it is stated at the beginning 
of the work, "nothing is sacred, neither friend- 

72 



HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

ship, love nor his word all are playthings of his 
mad whims. He knows neither law nor justice.'* 
And when, a little later, smiling, the King hands 
the holy water to the ambassador he is receiving, 
the orchestra reveals the working of his mind by 
repeating the music of the preceding scene. 
From beginning to end the work is written in this 
way. But dissertations on such details have not 
been given the public; the themes of felony, cru- 
elty, and duplicity, and of this and that, have not, 
as is the fashion of the day, been underlined, so 
that the critics are excusable for not seeing them. 
Not a scene, not a word, they say, shows the 
soul of Henry VIIL I would like to ask if it is 
not revealed in the great scene between Henry 
and Catharine, where he plays with her as a cat 
with a mouse, where he veils his desire to be rid of 
her under his religious scruples, and where he 
heaps on her constantly vile and cruel insinua- 
tions, or even in the last scene with its cruel hy- 
pocrisies. It is difficult to see why all his pas- 
sions and all his feelings are not brought into 
play here. The Russian librettos do no more, 
nor the operas based on mythology. 

73 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

But to continue. From the point of view of 
opera mythology offers one advantage in the use 
of the miraculous. But the rest of the mythical 
element offers, rather, difficulties. Characters 
who never existed and in whom no one believes 
cannot be made interesting in themselves. 
They do not sustain, as is sometimes supposed, 
the music and poetry. On the contrary, the 
music and poetry give them such reality as they 
possess. We could not endure the interminable 
utterances of the mournful Wotan, if it were not 
for the wonderful music that accompanies them. 
Orpheus weeping over Eurydice would not move 
us greatly, if Cluck had not known how to capti- 
vate us by his first notes. If it were not for Mo- 
zart's music, the puppets of the Magic Flute 
would amount to nothing. 

Musicians should, as a matter of fact, be al- 
lowed to choose both the subject and motives for 
their operas according to their temperaments and 
their feelings. Much youthful talent is lost to- 
day because the young composers believe that 
they must obey set rules instead of obeying their 
own inspiration. All great artists, the iUustri- 

74 



HISTORY AND MYTHOLOGY IN OPERA 

ous Richard more than any other, mocked the 
critics. 

As I have spoken of Richard Wagner's youth, 
I will take advantage of the opportunity to reveal 
a secret of one of his own works which is known 
to me alone. When Wagner was young, I was a 
child and I attended constantly the sessions of 
the Societe des Concerts. The kettledrummer 
of that day had a peculiar habit of breaking in 
before the rest of the orchestra. When the oth- 
ers began, it produced an effect which the authors 
had hardly foreseen and which was certain to be 
condemned. But the effect had a rather distinc- 
tive character and I thought it might be possible 
to use it. Richard Wagner lived in Paris at 
the time and frequented the famous concerts. 
There is no doubt that he noted this effect and 
used it in his overture to Faust. 



75 



CHAPTER VII 

ART FOR ART'S SAKE 

What is Art? 

Art is a mystery something which responds 
to a special sense, peculiar to the human race. 
This is ordinarily called the esthetic sense, but 
that is an inexact term, for esthetic sense signifies 
a sense of the beautiful and what is esthetic is 
not necessarily beautiful. Sense of style would 
be better. 

Some of the savage races have this sense of 
style, for their arms and utensils show a remark- 
able feeling for style, which they lose by con- 
tact with civilization. 

By art let us understand, if you please, the 
Fine Arts alone, but including decorative art. 
Music ought to be included. 

I shall astonish most of my readers, when I 
say that very few people understand music. For 

76 



ART FOR ARTS SAKE 

most people it is, as Victor Hugo said, an exhala- 
tion of art something for the ear as perfume is 
for the olfactory sense, a source of vague sensa- 
tions, necessarily unformed as all sensations are. 
But musical art is something entirely different. 
It has line, modeling, color through instrumen- 
tation, all making up an ideal sphere where some, 
like the writer of these lines, live from childhood 
on, which others attain through education, while 
many others never know it at all. Furthermore, 
musical art has more movement than the other 
fine arts. It is the most mysterious of them all, 
although the others are mysterious as it is easy 
to see. 

The first manifestation of art occurs through 
attempts to reproduce objects. Such attempts 
have been found which date back to prehistoric 
times. But what is primitive man's idea in such 
attempts ? He wants to record by a line the con- 
tour of the object, the likeness of which he 
wishes to preserve. This contour and this 
line do not exist in nature. The whole phil- 
osophy of art is in that crude drawing. It 
bases itself on nature even while making some- 

77 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

thing quite different in response to a special, in- 
explicable need of the human spirit. Accord- 
ingly nothing can be more chimerical or vain than 
the advice so often given to the artist to be truth- 
ful. Art can never be true, even though it 
should not be false. It should be true artisti- 
cally, by giving an artistic translation which will 
satisfy the sense of style of which we have spoken. 
When Art has satisfied this sense of style, the ob- 
ject of artistic expression has been attained; noth- 
ing more can be asked. But it is not the "vain 
effort of an unproductive cleverness," as our M. 
de Mun has said; it is an effort to satisfy a legiti- 
mate need, one of the loftiest and most honorable 
in human nature the need of art. 

If this is so, why should we demand that Art 
be useful or moral? It is both in its own way, 
for it awakens noble and honest sentiments in the 
soul. That was the opinion of Theophile Gau- 
tier, but Victor Hugo disagreed. The sun is 
beautiful, he used to say, and it is useful. That 
is true, but the sun is not an object of art. Be- 
sides, how many times Victor Hugo denied his 
own doctrine by writing verses which were merely 

78 



ART FOR ART'S SAKE 

brilliant descriptions or admirable bits of imagi- 
nation? 

We are, however, talking of art and not of lit- 
erature. Literature becomes art in poetry but 
forsakes it in prose. Even if some of the great 
prose writers rendered their prose artistic 
through the beauty and harmony of their periods 
and the picturesqueness of their expressions, still 
prose is not art in its real nature. So, crude in- 
decency aside, what would be immoral in prose 
ceases to be immoral in verse, for in poetry Art 
follows its own code and form transcends the sub- 
ject matter. That is why a great poet, Sully- 
Prudhomme, preferred prose to verse when he 
wanted to write philosophically, for he feared, on 
account of the superiority of form to substance 
in poetry, that his ideas would not be taken seri- 
ously. That explains as well why parents take 
young girls to hear an opera, when if the same 
piece was played without music they would be 
appalled at the idea. What Christian is ever 
shocked by La Juive or Catholic frightened away 
from Le$ Huguenots? 

Because prose is far removed from art, it is un- 
79 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

suited to music, despite the fact that this ill-as- 
sorted union is fashionable to-day? In poetry 
there has heen an effort to make it so artistic that 
form alone is considered and verse is written 
which is entirely without sense. But that is a 
fad which can't last long. 

Sometime ago M. de Mun said: 

"Not to take sides is what the author is in- 
hibited from doing. Art, to my way of thinking, 
is a setting forth of ideas. If it is not that if it 
limits itself solely to considerations of form, to 
a worship of beauty for its own sake, without re- 
gard to the deeds and thoughts it brings to light, 
then it seems to me no better than the vain effort 
of an unproductive cleverness." 

The eminent speaker is absolutely right as far 
as prose is concerned, but we cannot agree with 
him if poetry is considered, 

Victor Hugo, in his marvellous ode, La Lyre et 
La Harpe, brings Paganism and Christianity face 
to face. Each speaks in turn, and the poet in his 
last stanza seems to acknowledge that both are 
right, but that does not prevent the ode from be- 

80 




*.^?1 



^^>iL 



M. Saint-Saens in his Later Years 



ART FOR ART'S SAKE 

ing a masterpiece. That would not be possible 
in prose, but in the poem the poetry carries all 
before it. 

Why is it that geniuses like Victor Hugo, dis- 
tinguished minds, thinkers, and profound critics, 
refuse to see that Art is a special entity which re- 
sponds to a certain sense ? If Art accommodates 
itself marvellously, if it accords itself with the 
precepts of morality and passion, it is neverthe- 
less sufficient unto itself and in its self-suffi- 
ciency lies its heights of greatness. 

The first prelude of Sebastian Bach's Wohl- 
temperirte Klavier expresses nothing, and yet 
that is one of the marvels of music. The Venus 
de Milo expresses nothing, and it is one of the 
marvels of sculpture. 

To tell the truth, it is proper to add that in 
order not to be immoral Art must appeal to those 
who have a feeling for it. Where the artist sees 
only beautiful forms, the gross see only nudity. 
I have seen a good man scandalized at the sight of 
Ingres's La Source. 

Just as morality has no function to be artistic, 
81 



MUSICAL MEMORIES . 

so Art has nothing to do with morality. BofH 
have their own functions, and each is useful in 
its own way. The final aim of morality is moral- 
ity; of art, art, and nothing else. 



82 



CHAPTER VIII 

POPULAR SCIENCE AND ART 

Rene Bazin has sketched cleverly Pasteur's 
brilliant career. France has no clearer claim to 
glory than in Pasteur, for he is one of the men, 
who, in spite of everything, keeps her in the first 
rank of nations. 

A rare good fortune attended him. While 
many scholars who seek the truth without con- 
cerning themselves with the practical results have 
to wait many long years before their discoveries 
can be used, Pasteur's discoveries were useful at 
once. So the mob, which cannot understand sci- 
ence studied for its own sake, appreciated Pas- 
teur's works. He saved millions to the public 
treasury, and tens of thousands of human lives. 

He had already secured a notable place in sci- 
ence when the public learned his name through 
the memorable contest between him and Pouchet 
over "spontaneous generation." The probabili- 

83 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ties of the case were on Pouchet's side. People 
refused to believe that these organisms which de- 
veloped in great numbers in an enclosed jar or 
that the molds which developed under certain 
conditions were not produced spontaneously. 
The youth of the time went wild over the ques- 
tion. 

I was constantly being asked, "Are you for 
Pouchet or Pasteur?" and my invariable re- 
sponse was, "I shall be for the one who proves he 
is right." I was unwilling to admit that any 
such question could be solved a priori in accord- 
ance with preconceived ideas, although I must 
confess that among my friends I found no one of 
the same opinion. 

We know how Pasteur won a striking victory 
through his patience and his genius. He dem- 
onstrated that millions and millions of germs are 
present in the air about us and that when one of 
them finds favorable conditions, a living being 
appears which engenders others. "Many are 
called, but few are chosen." This law may seem 
unjust, but it is one of the great laws of Nature. 

Pasteur, the great benefactor, whose discov- 
84 



POPULAR SCIENCE AND ART 

cries did so much for all classes of society, should 
have been popular, but he was, on the contrary, 
extremely unpopular. The leading publicists of 
the day were influenced by some inexplicable sen- 
timent and they made constant war on him. 
When, after several years of prodigious labor, 
Pasteur ventured to assert himself, they took ad- 
vantage of his following the dictates of humanity 
in accepting all sorts of cases, curable or not, to 
spread a report that his treatment did not cure, 
but instead gave the disease which it was sup- 
posed to cure. Popular fury was aroused to 
such a height, that a monster mass meeting was 
held against Pasteur. Louise Michel addressed 
this meeting with her customary vigor of speech 
and amidst frantic applause shouted this un- 
qualified remark, "Scientific questions should b<> 
settled by the people." 

By this time everybody was talking about mi- 
crobes, and a shop on the boulevards announced 
an exhibition of them. They used what is 
known as a solar microscope and threw on a 
screen, suitably enlarged, the animalculae which 
grow in impure water, the larvae of mosquitoes, 

85 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

and other insects, which bear about the same rela- 
tion to microbes that an elephant does to a flea. 
I went into this establishment, and saw the plain 
people with their wives looking at the exhibition 
very seriously and really believing that they saw 
the famous microbes. One of them near me 
said, with a knowing air, "What won't science do 
next?" 

I was indignant, and I had all I could do to 
keep from saying: "They are fooling you. 
What they are showing you is not Science, at the 
most only its antechamber. As for you who are 
deceiving these naive good people, you are only 
impostors." 

But I kept still; I would only have succeeded 
in getting thrown out. But I said to myself 
and I still say "Why not enlighten these peo- 
ple, who obviously want light?" It is impos- 
sible to teach them science, but it should be pos- 
sible to make them at least comprehend what sci- 
ence is, for they have no idea of it now. They 
do not know in this era when they are con- 
stantly talking about their rights and urged to de- 
mand more wages and less work that there are 

86 



POPULAR SCIENCE AND ART 

young people who are spending their best years 
and leading a precarious existence, working day 
and night, without hope of personal profit, with 
no other end in view besides the hope of discover- 
ing new facts from which humanity may benefit at 
some time in the future. They do not know that 
all the benefits of civilization which they care- 
lessly enjoy are the result of the long, painful 
and enormous work of the thinkers whom they re- 
gard as idlers and visionaries who grow rich from 
the sweat of the toilers. In a word, they should 
be taught to give respect to what is worthy of it. 

It is true that there are scientific congresses, 
but these are serious gatherings which attract 
only the select few. It should be possible to in- 
terest everybody, and in order to make scientific 
meetings interesting we should use motion pic- 
tures and concerts. 

But here we trench on art. We ought to teach 
the people not only science but art as well, but 
the latter is the more difficult. 

Modern peoples are not artistic. The Greeks 
were, and the Japanese were, before the Euro- 

87 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

pean invasion. An artistic people is recognized 
by their ignorance of "objects of art," for in such 
an environment art is everywhere. An artistic 
people no more dreams of creating art than a 
great nobleman of consciously exhibiting a dis- 
tinguished manner. Distinction lies in his 
slightest mannerism without his being conscious 
of the fact. So, among artistic peoples, the most 
ordinary and humble objects have style. And 
this style, furthermore, is in perfect harmony 
with the purpose of the object. It is absolutely 
appropriate for that purpose in its proportions, 
in the purity of its lines, the elegance of its form, 
its perfection of execution, and, above all, in its 
meaning. When an outcry is raised against the 
ugliness and tawdriness of certain objects in this 
country, the answer is, "But see how cheap they 
are!" But style and conscience in work cost 
nothing. Feeling for art is, however, inherent 
in human nature. The weapons of primitive 
peoples are beautiful. The prehistoric hatchets 
of the Stone Age are perfect in their contours. 
There is, therefore, no question of creating a feel- 
ing for art in the people, but of awakening it. 

88 



POPULAR SCIENCE AND /JIT 

Music holds so important a place in the mod- 
ern world, that we ought to begin with that. 
There is plenty of gay music, easy to understand, 
which is in harmony with the laws of art, and the 
people ought to hear it instead of the horrors 
which they cram into our ears under the pretence 
of satisfying our tastes. What pleases people 
most is sentimental music, but it need not be a 
silly sentimentality. Instead, they ought to give 
the people the charming airs which grow, as natu- 
rally as daisies on a lawn, in the vast field of 
opera-comzque. That is not high art, it is true, 
but it is pretty music and it is high art compared 
with what is heard too often in the cafes. I am 
not ignorant of the fact that such establishments 
employ talented people. But along with the 
good, what frightful things one hears ! And no 
one would listen to their instrumental repertoire 
anywhere else! 

Every time anyone has tried to raise the stand- 
ards and employ real singers and real virtuosi* 
the attendance has increased. But, very often, 
even at the theatres, the managers satisfy their 
own tastes under the pretence of satisfying that 

89 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

of the public. That is, of course, intensely hu- 
man. We judge others by ourselves. 

A famous manager once said to me, as he 
pointed to an empty house, "The public is amaz- 
ing. Give them what they like, and they don't 
come!" 

One day I was walking in a garden. There 
was a bandstand and musicians were playing 
some sort of music. The crowd was indifferent 
and passed by talking without paying the slight- 
est attention. Suddenly there sounded the first 
notes of the delightful andante of Beethoven's 
Symphony in D a flower of spring with a deli- 
cate perfume. At the first notes all walking and 
talking stopped. And the crowd stood motion- 
less and in an almost religious silence as it lis- 
tened to the marvel. When the piece was over, I 
went out of the garden, and near the entrance I 
heard one of the managers say, 

"There, you see they don't like that kind of 



music." 



And that kind of music was never played there 
again. 



90 



CHAPTER IX 

ANARCHY IN MUSIC 

Music is as old as human nature. We can get 
some idea of what it was at first from the music of 
savage tribes. There were a few notes and rudi- 
mentary melodies with blows struck in cadence as 
an accompaniment; or, sometimes, the same 
primitive rhythms without any accompaniment 
and nothing else! Then melody was per- 
fected and the rhythms became more compli- 
cated. Later came Greek music, of which we 
know little, and the music of the East and Far 
East. 

Music, as we now understand the term, began 
with the attempts at harmony in the Middle Ages. 
These attempts Were labored and difficult, and the 
uncertainty of their gropings, combined with the 
slowness of their development, excites our won- 
der. Centuries were necessary before the writ- 

91 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ing of music became exact, but, slowly, laws were 
elaborated. Thanks to them the works of the 
Sixteenth Century came into being, in all their 
admirable purity and learned polyphony. Hard 
and inflexible laws engendered an art analogous 
to primitive painting. Melody was almost en- 
tirely absent and was relegated to dance tunes 
and popular songs. But the dance tunes of the 
time, on which, perhaps, erudition was not used 
sufficiently, were written in the same polyphonic 
style and with the same rigid correctness as the 
madrigals and the church music. 

We know that the popular songs found their 
way into the church music and that Palestrina's 
great reform consisted in banishing them. How- 
ever, we should get but a feeble idea of the part 
they played, if we imagined that they naturally 
belonged there. Take a well known air, Au 
Claire de la Lune, for example, and make each 
note a whole note sung by the tenor, while the 
other voices dialogue back and forth in counter- 
point, and see what is left of the song for the lis- 
tener. The scandal of La Messe de VHomme 
arme was entirely theoretical. 

92 



ANARCHY IN MUSIC 

We simply do not know how they played these 
anthems, masses, and madrigals, in the absence 
of any indication of either the time or the em- 
phasis. We find a few directions for expression, 
as in the first measures of Palestrina's Stabat 
Mater, but such directions are extremely rare. 
They are simply the first signs of the dawn of the 
far-off day of music with expression. Certain 
learned and well-intentioned persons endeavor to 
compare this music with ours, and we surprise in 
some of the modern editions instances of molto 
expressive which seem to be good guesses. This 
exclusively consonant music, in which the inter- 
vals of fourths were considered dissonant, while 
the diminishing fifth was the diabclus in musica, 
ought from its very nature to be antithetical to ex- 
pression. Nothing in the Kyrie, in La Messe du 
Pape Marcel, gives the impression of a prayer, 
unless expressive accents, without any real justi- 
fication, are introduced by main strength. 

Expression came into existence with the chord 
of the dominant seventh from which all modern 
harmony developed. This invention is attrib- 
jited to Monteverde. No matter what has been 

93 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

said, however, it occurs in Palestrina's Adoremus. 
Floods of ink have been poured out in discussing 
this question, some affirming, while others and 
not the least, by any manner of means denying 
the existence of the famous chord. No equivo- 
cation is possible. It is a simultaneously played 
chord held by four voices for a whole measure. 
What is certain is that Palestrina, by putting 
aside the rules, made a discovery, the significance 
of which he did not realize. 

With the introduction of the seventh interval 
a new era began. It would be a grave error to 
believe that the rules were overturned, for, in- 
stead, new principles were added to old ones as 
new conditions demanded. They learned how to 
modulate, how to transpose from one key to the 
next key and finally to the keys farthest away. 
In his treatise on harmony Fetis studied this evo- 
lution in a masterly manner. Unfortunately his 
scholarship was not combined with deep musical 
feeling. For example, he saw faults in Mozart 
and Beethoven where there are only beauties, and 
beauties which even an ignorant listener if he is 
naturally musical will see without trouble. 

94 



ANARCHY IN MUSIC 

He did not understand the vast difference be- 
tween the unlettered person who commits a sole- 
cism and Pascal, the inventor of a new syntax. 

However that may be, Fetis gave us a compre- 
hensive review in broad outlines of musical evolu- 
tion down to what he justly called the "omnitonic 
system/' which Richard Wagner has achieved 
since. "Beyond that/' he said, "I can see noth- 
ing more," 

He did not foresee the a-tonic system, but that 
is what we have come to* There is no longer 
any question of adding to the old rules new prin- 
ciples which are the natural expression .of time 
and experience, but simply of casting aside all 
rules and every restraint. 

"Everyone ought to make his own rules. 
Music is free and unlimited in its liberty of ex- 
pression. There are no perfect chords, disso- 
nant chords or false chords. All aggregations of 
notes are legitimate." 

That is called, and they believe it, the develop- 
ment of taste. 

He whose taste is developed by this system is 
not like the man who by tasting a wine can tell 

95 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

you its age and its vineyard, but he is rather like 
the fellow who with perfect indifference gulps 
down good or bad wine, brandy or whiskey, and 
prefers that which burns his gullet the most. 
The man who gets his work hung in the Salon is 
not the one who puts on his canvas delicate 
touches in harmonious tones, but he who juxta- 
poses vermillion and Veronese green. The man 
with a "developed taste" is not the one who 
knows how to get new and unexpected results by 
passing from one key to another, as the great 
Richard did in Die Meister singer, but rather the 
man who abandons all keys and piles up disso- 
nances which he neither introduces nor concludes 
and who, as a result, grunts his way through 
music as a pig through a flower garden. 

Possibly they may go farther still. There 
seems to be no reason why they should linger on 
the way to untrammeled freedom or restrict them- 
selves within a scale. The boundless empire of 
sound is at their disposal and let them profit by it. 
That is what dogs do when they bay at the moon, 
cats when they meow, and the birds when they 
sing. A German has written a book to prove 

96 



ANARCHY IN MUSIC 

that the birds sing false* Of course he is wrong 
for they do not sing false. If they did, their 
song would not sound agreeable to us. They 
sing outside of scales and it is delightful, but that 
is not man-made art. 

Some Spanish singers give a similar impres- 
sion, through singing interminable grace notes 
beyond notation. Their art is intermediate be- 
tween the singing of the birds and of man. It is 
hot a higher art. 

In certain quarters they marvel at the progress 
made in the last thirty years. The architects of 
the Fifteenth Century must have reasoned in the 
same way. They did not appreciate that they 
were assassinating Gothic art, and that after some 
centuries we would have to revert to the art of the 
Greeks and Romans. 



97 



CHAPTER X 

THE ORGAN 

When hairy Pan joined reeds of different 
lengths and so invented the flute which bears his 
name, he was, in reality, creating the organ. It 
needed only to add to this flute a keyboard and 
bellows to make one of those pretty instruments 
the first painters used to put in the hands of an- 
gels. As it developed and gradually became the 
most grandiose of the instruments, the organ, 
with its depth of tone modified and increased ten- 
fold by the resonance of the great cathedrals, 
took on its religious character. 

The organ is more than a single instrument. 
It is an orchestra, a collection of the pipes of Pan 
of every size, from those as small as a child's play- 
things to those as gigantic as the columns of a 
temple. Each one corresponds to what is 
termed an organ-stop. The number is unlim- 
ited. 

98 



THE ORGAN 

The Romans made organs which must have 
been simple from the musical standpoint, though 
they were complicated in their mechanical con- 
struction. They were called hydraulic organs. 
The employment of water in a wind instrument 
has greatly perplexed the commentators. Ca- 
vaille-Coll studied the question and solved the 
problem by demonstrating that the water com- 
pressed the air. This system was ingenious but 
imperfect, since it was applicable only to the most 
primitive instruments. The keys, it seems, 
were very large, and were struck by blows of the 
fist. 

Let us leave erudition for art and primitive for 
perfected instruments. By the time of Sebastian 
Bach and Rameau the organ had taken on its 
grandiose character. The stops had multiplied 
and the organist called them by means of regis- 
ters which he drew out or pushed back at will. 
In order to give greater resources, the builder 
multiplied the keyboards. Pedals were intro- 
duced to help out the keyboards. At that time 
Germany alone had pedals worthy of the name 
and worth while in playing an interesting bass 

99 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

part. In France and elsewhere the rudimentary 
pedals were only used for certain fundamental 
notes or in prolonged tenutos. No one outside 
of Germany could play Sebastian Bach's compo- 
sitions. 

Playing on the old instruments was fatiguing 
and uncomfortable. The touch was heavy and, 
when one used both the pedals and the keyboards, 
a real display of strength was necessary. A sim- 
ilar display was necessary to draw out or push 
back the registers, some of which were beyond 
the player's reach. In short, an assistant was 
necessary, in fact several assistants in playing 
large organs like those at Harlem or Arnheim in 
Holland. It was almost impossible to modify 
the combinations of stops. All nuances, save 
the abrupt change from strong to soft and vice 
versa, were impossible. 

It remained for Cavaille-Coll to change all 
this and open up new fields of usefulness for the 
organ. He introduced in France keyboards 
worthy of the name, and he gave to the higher 
notes, through his invention of harmonic stops, 
a brilliancy they had lacked. He invented won- 

100 



THE ORGAN 

derful combinations which allow the organist to 
change his combinations and to vary the tone, 
without the aid of an assistant and without leav- 
ing the keyboard. Even before his day a scheme 
had been devised of enclosing certain stops in a 
box protected by shutters which a pedal opened 
and closed at will; this permitted the finest shad- 
ings. By different processes the touch of the or- 
gan was made as delicate as that of the piano. 

For some years the Swiss organ-makers have 
been inventing new facilities which make the or- 
ganist a sort of magician. The manifold re- 
sources of the marvellous instrument are at his 
command, obedient to his slightest wish. 

These resources are prodigious. The com- 
pass of the organ far surpasses that of all the in- 
struments of the orchestra. The violin notes 
alone reach the same height, but with little car- 
rying power. As for the lower tones, there is no 
competitor of the thirty-two-foot pipes, which go 
two octaves below the violoncello's low C. Be- 
tween the pianissimo which almost reaches the 
limit where sound ceases and silence begins, 
down to a range of formidable and terrifying 

101 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

power, every degree of intensity can be obtained 
from this magical instrument. The variety of its 
timbre is broad There are flute stops of vari- 
ous kinds; tonal stops that approximate the tim- 
bre of stringed instruments; stops for effecting 
changes in which each note, formed from several 
pipes, bring out simultaneously its fundamental 
and harmonic sounds; stops which serve to imi- 
tate the instruments of the orchestra, such as the 
trumpet, the clarinet, and the cremona (an obso- 
lete instrument with a timbre peculiar to itself) 
and the bassoon. There are celestial voices of 
several kinds, produced by combinations of two 
simultaneous stops which are not tuned in per- 
fect unison. Then we have the famous Vox Hu- 
mana, a favorite with the public, which is allur- 
ing even though it is tremulous and nasal, and 
we have the innumerable combinations of all 
these different stops, with the gradations that may 
be obtained through indefinite commingling of 
the tones of this marvellous palette. 

Add to all this the continual breathing of the 
monster's lungs which gives the sounds an incom- 
parable and inimitable steadiness. Human be- 

102 



THE ORGAN 

ings were used for a long time to fill these lungs 
blowers working away with hands and feet. 
We do much better now. The great organ ir 
Albert Hall, London, is supplied with air by 
steam which assures the organist an inexhaust- 
ible supply. Other instruments use gas engines 
which are more manageable. Then, there is the 
hydraulic system, which is very powerful and 
easily used, for one has only to pull out a plug to 
set the bellows in motion. 

These mechanical systems, however, are not 
entirely free from accidents. I discovered that 
fact when I was concluding the first part of the 
Adagio in Liszt's great Fantaisie in the beautiful 
Victoria Hall in Geneva. The pipe which 
brought in the water burst and the organ was 
mute. I have always thought, perhaps wrongly, 
that malice had something to do with the acci- 
dent. 

This Liszt Fantaisie is the most extraordinary 
piece for the organ there is. It lasts forty min- 
utes and the interest is sustained throughout. 
Just as Mozart in his Fantaisie et Sonate in C 
minor foresaw the modern piano, so Liszt, writ- 

103 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ing this Fantaisie more than half a century ago, 
appears to have foreseen the instrument of a 
thousand resources which we have to-day. 

Let us have the courage to admit, however, 
that these resources are only partly utilized as 
they can or should be. To draw from a great 
instrument all its possibilities, to begin with, 
one must understand it thoroughly, and that un- 
derstanding cannot be gained over night. The 
organ, as we have seen, is a collection of an in- 
definite number of instruments. It places be- 
fore the organist extraordinary means of express- 
ing himself. No two of these instruments are 
precisely alike. The organ is only a theme with 
innumerable variations, determined by the place 
in which it is to be installed, by the amount of 
money at the builder's disposal, by his inventive- 
ness, and, often, by his personal whims. As a 
result time is required for the organist to learn his 
instrument thoroughly. After this he is as free 
as the fish in the sea, and his only preoccupation 
is the music. Then, to play freely with the col- 
ors on his vast palette, there is but one way he 
must plunge boldly into improvisation. 

104 



THE ORGAN 

Now improvisation is the particular glory of 
the French school, but it has been injured seri- 
ously of late by the influence of the German 
school. Under the pretext that an improvisation 
is not so good as one of Sebastian Bach's or Men- 
delssohn's masterpieces, young organists have 
stopped improvising. 

That point of view is harmful because it is ab- 
solutely false; it is simply the negation of elo- 
quence. Consider what the legislative hall, the 
lecture room and the court would be like if noth- 
ing but set pieces were delivered. We are famil- 
iar with the fact that many an orator and lawyer, 
who is brilliant when he talks, becomes dry as 
dust when he tries to write. The same thing 
happens in music. Lefebure-Wely was a won- 
derful improviser (I can say this emphatically, 
for I heard him) but he left only a few unimpor- 
tant compositions for the organ. I might also 
name some of my contemporaries who express 
themselves completely only through their impro- 
visations. The organ is thought-provoking. 
As one touches the organ, the imagination is 
awakened, and the unforeseen rises from the 

105 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

depths of the unconscious. It is a world of its 
own, ever new, which will never be seen again, 
and which comes out of the darkness, as an en- 
chanted island comes from the sea. 

Instead of this fairyland, we too often see only 
some of Sebastian Bach's or Mendelssohn's pieces 
repeated continuously. The pieces themselves 
are very fine, but they belong to concerts and are 
entirely out of place in church services. Fur- 
thermore, they were written for old instruments 
and they apply either not at all, or badly, to the 
modern organ. Yet there are those who think 
this belief spells progress. 

I am fully aware of what may be said against 
improvisation. There are players who impro- 
vise badly and their playing is uninteresting. 
But many preachers speak badly. That, how- 
ever, has nothing to do with the real issue. A 
mediocre improvisation is always endurable, if 
the organist has grasped the idea that church 
music should harmonize with the service and aid 
meditation and prayer. If the organ music is 
played in this spirit and results in harmonious 
sounds rather than in precise music which is not 

106 



THE ORGAN 

worth writing out, it still is comparable witK the 
old glass windows in which the individual figures 
can hardly be distinguished but which are, never- 
theless, more charming than the finest modern 
windows. Such an improvisation may be better 
than a fugue by a great master, on the principle 
that nothing in art is good unless it is in its proper 
place. 

During the twenty years I played the organ 
at the Madeleine, I improvised constantly, giv- 
ing my fancy the widest range. That was one 
of the joys of life. 

But there was a tradition that I was a severe, 
austere musician. The public was led to believe 
that I played nothing but fugues. So current 
was this belief that a young woman about to be 
married begged me to play no fugues at her wed- 
ding! 

Another young woman asked me to play fu- 
neral marches. She wanted to cry at her wed- 
ding, and as she had no natural inclination to do 
so, she counted on the organ to bring tears to her 
eyes. 

But this case was unique. -Ordinarily, they 
107 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

were afraid of my severity although this sever- 
ity was tempered. 

One day one of the parish vicars undertook to 
instruct me on this point. He told me that the 
Madeleine audiences were composed in the main 
of wealthy people who attended the Opera-Com- 
ique frequently, and formed musical tastes which 
ought to be respected. 

"Monsieur 1'abbe," I replied, "when I hear 
from the pulpit the language of opera-comique, I 
will play music appropriate to it, and not be- 
fore!" 



108 



CHAPTER XI 

JOSEPH HAYDN AND THE "SEVEN WORDS" 

Joseph Haydn, that great musician, the father 
of the symphony and of all modern music, has 
been neglected. We are too prone to forget that 
concerts are, in a sense, museums in which the 
older schools of music should be represented. 
Music is something besides a source of sensuous 
pleasure and keen emotion, and this resource, 
precious as it is, is only a chance corner in the 
wide realm of musical art. He who does not get 
absolute pleasure from a simple series of well- 
constructed chords, beautiful only in their ar- 
rangement, is not really fond of music. The 
same is true of the one who does not prefer the 
first prelude of the WohltempenTte Klavier, 
played without gradations, just as the author 
wrote it for the harpsichord, to the same prelude 
embellished with an impassioned melody; or who 
does not prefer a popular melody of character or 

109 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

a Gregorian chant without any accompaniment 
to a series of dissonant and pretentious chords. 

The directors of great concerts should love 
music themselves and should lead the public to 
appreciate it. They should not allow the mas- 
ters to be forgotten, for their only fault was that 
they were not born in our times and they never 
dreamed of attempting to satisfy the tastes of an 
unborn generation. Above all, the directors 
should grant recognition to masters like Joseph 
Haydn who were in advance of their own times 
and who seem now and then to belong to our own. 

The only examples of Joseph Haydn's im- 
mense work that the present generation knows 
are two or three symphonies, rarely and perfunc- 
torily performed. This is the same as saying 
that we do not know him at all. No musician 
was ever more prolific or showed a greater wealth 
of imagination. When we examine this mine of 
jewels, we are astonished to find at every step a 
gem which we would have attributed to the in- 
vention of some modern or other. We are daz- 
zled by their rays, and where we expect black- 
and-whites we find pastels grown dim with time. 

110 



JOSEPH HAYDN 

. Of Haydn's one hundred and eighteen sym- 
phonies, many are simple trifles written from day 
to day for Prince Esterhazy's little chapel, when 
the master was musical director there. But after 
Haydn was called to London by Salomon, a di- 
rector of concerts, where he had a large orchestra 
at his disposal, his genius took magnificent 
flights. Then he wrote great symphonies and in 
them the clarinets for the first time unfolded the 
resources from which the modern orchestra has 
profited so abundantly. Originally the clarinet 
played a humble role, as the name indicates. 
Clarinetto is the diminutive of clarino, and the 
instrument was invented to replace the shrill 
tones that the trumpet lost as it gained in depth 
of tone. 

Old editions of Haydn's symphonies show a 
picturesque arrangement, in that the disposition 
of the orchestra is shown on the printed page. 
Above, is a group made up of drums and the 
brass. In the center is a second group the 
flutes, oboes and bassoons, while the strii ed in- 
struments are at the bottom of the page. When 
clarinets are used, they are a part of the first 

111 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

group. This pretty arrangement has, unfortu- 
nately, not been followed in the modern editions 
of these symphonies. In the works written in 
London the clarinet has utterly forgotten its or- 
igins. It has left the somewhat plebeian world 
of the brasses and has gained admittance to the 
more refined society of the woods. Haydn, in 
his first attempts, took advantage of the beautiful 
heavy tones, "chalumeau," and the flexibility and 
marvellous range of a beautiful instrument. 

During his stay in London Haydn sketched an 
Orfeo which he never completed, as the theatre 
which ordered it failed before it was finished. 
Only fragments of the work remain, and, fortu- 
nately enough, these have been engraved in an 
orchestra score. These fragments are uneven in 
value. The dialogue, or recitative, which 
should bind them together was lost and so we are 
unable to judge them fairly. Among the frag- 
ments is a brilliant aria on Eurydice which is 
rather ridiculous, while another on Eurydice dy- 
ing is charming. We also find music for myste- 
rious English horns; it is written as for clarinets 
in B flat and reaches heights which are impossible 

112 



JOSEPH HAYDN 

for the instrument we now know as the English 
horn. There is also a beautiful bass part. This 
has been provided with Latin words and is sung 
in churches. This aria was assigned to a Creon 
who does not appear in the other fragments. 
One scene shows Eurydice running up and down 
the banks pursued by demons. Another depicts 
the death of Orpheus, killed by the Bacchantes. 
This score is a curiosity and nothing more, and a 
reading causes no regret that the work was not 
completed. 

Like Cluck, Joseph Haydn had the rare ad- 
vantage of developing constantly. He did not 
reach the height of his genius until an age when 
the finest faculties are, ordinarily, in a decline. 
He astounded the musical world with his Crea- 
tion, in which he displayed a fertility of imagina- 
tion and a magnificence of orchestral richness 
that the oratorio had never known before. Em- 
boldened by his success he wrote the Seasons, a 
colossal work, the most varied and the most pic- 
turesque in the history of ancient or modern 
music. In this instance the oratorio is no longer 
entirely religious. It gives an audacious pic- 

113 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ture of nature with realistic touches which are 
astonishing even now. There is an artistic imi- 
tation of the different sounds in nature, as the 
rustling of the leaves, the songs of the birds in the 
woods and on the farm, and the shrill notes of the 
insects. Above all that is the translation into 
music of the profound emotions to which the dif- 
ferent aspects of nature give birth, as the fresh- 
ness of the forests, the stifling heat before a 
storm, the storm itself, and the wonderful sunset 
that follows. Then there is a huntsman's chorus 
which strikes an entirely different note. There 
are grape harvests, with the mad dances that fol- 
low them. There is the winter, with a poignant 
introduction which reminds us of pages in Schu- 
mann. But be reassured, the author does not 
leave us to the rigors of the cold. He takes us 
into a farmhouse where the women are spinning 
and where the peasants are drawn about the fire, 
listening to a .funny tale and kughing immode- 
rately with a gaiety which has never been sur- 
passed. 

But this gigantic work does not end without 
giving us a glimpse of Heaven, for with one grand 

114 



JOSEPH HAYDN 

upward burst of flight, Haydn reaches the realms 
where Handel and Beethoven preceded him. He 
equals them and ends his picture in a dazzling 
blaze of light. 

This is the sort of work of which the public re- 
mains in ignorance and which it ought to know. 

But all this is not what I started out to say. I 
wanted to write about a delicate, touching, re- 
served and precious work by the same author 
The Seven Words of Christ on the Cross. This 
work has appeared in three forms for an orches- 
tra and chorus, for an orchestra alone, and for a 
quartet. When I was a young man, they used to 
say in Paris that this work was originally written 
for a quartet, then developed for an orchestra, 
and, finally, the voices were added. 

Chance took me to Cadiz, once upon a time, 
and there I was given the true story of this beau- 
tiful piece of work. To my astonishment I 
learned that it had been first performed in the 
city of Cadiz. They even spoke of a competi- 
tion in which Haydn won the prize, but there was 
never any such contest. The work was ordered 
from the author, but the question is who ordered 

115 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

it. Two religious circles, the Cathedral and the 
Cueva del Rosario, both lay claim to the initia- 
tive. I have gone over all the evidence in this 
dispute which is of little interest to us, for the 
only interest is the origin of the composition. 
There is not the slightest doubt that the Seven, 
Words was written in the first pkce for an orches- 
tra in 1785, and its destination, as we shall see, 
was settled by the author himself. 

In his Memoires pour la Biographic et la Bibli- 
ographie de Pile de Cadix, Don Francisco de 
Miton, Marquis de Meritos, relates that he corres- 
ponded with Haydn and ordered this composition 
which was to be performed at the Cathedral in 
Cadiz. According to his account Haydn said 
.that "the composition was due more to what 
Senor Milton wrote than to his own invention, for 
it showed every motif so marvellously that on 
reading the instructions he seemed to read the 
music itself." 

If the Marquis was not boasting, we must con- 
fess that the ingenuous Haydn was not so ingen- 
uous as has been thought, and that he knew how 
to flatter his patrons. 

116 



JOSEPH HAYDN 

In 1801 Breitkopf and Haertel published the 
work with the addition of the vocal parts at Leip- 
zig. This edition had a preface by the author 
in which he said: 

About fifteen years ago, a cure at Cadiz en- 
gaged me to write some passages of instrumental 
music on the Seven Words of Christ on the Cross. 
It was the custom at that time to play an oratorio 
at the Cathedral during Holy Week, and they 
took great pains to give as much solemnity as pos- 
sible. The walls, the windows and the pillars of 
the church were hung in black, and only a single 
light in the centre shone in the sanctuary. The 
doors were closed at mid-day and the orchestra 
began to play. After the opening ceremonies 
the bishop entered the pulpit, pronounced one of 
the "Seven Words" and delivered a few words 
inspired by it. Then he descended, knelt before 
the altar, and remained there for some time. 
This pause was relieved by the music. The 
bishop ascended and descended six times more 
and each time, after his homily, music was 
played. My music was to be adapted to these 
ceremonies. 

The problem of writing seven adagios to be 
performed consecutively, each one to last ten 

117 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

minutes, without wearying the audience, was not 
an easy one to solve, and I soon recognized the 
impossibility of making my music conform to the 
prescribed limits. 

The work was written and printed without 
words. Later the opportunity of adding them 
was offered, so the oratorio which Breitkopf and 
Haertel publish to-day is a complete work and, 
so far as the vocal part is concerned, entirely new. 

The kind reception which it has received 
among amateurs makes me hope that the entire 
public will welcome it with the same kindness. 

Haydn feared to weary his hearers. Our 
modern bards have no such vain scruple. 

Michel Haydn, Joseph's brother and the 
author of some highly esteemed religious compo- 
sitions, has been generally credited with the addi- 
tion of the vocal parts to the Seven Words. Jo- 
seph Haydn did not say that this was the case, but 
it would seem that if he did the work himself he 
would have said so in his preface. 

This vocal part, however, adds nothing to the 
value of the work. And it is of no great conse- 
quence who the author of the arrangement for the 
quartet was. At the time there were many ama- 

118 



JOSEPH HAYDN 

teurs who played on stringed instruments. 
They used to meet frequently and everything in 
music was arranged for quartets just as now 
everything is arranged for piano duets. Some 
of Beethoven's sonatas were arranged in this 
form. The piano killed the quartet, and it is a 
great pity, for the quartet is the purest form of 
instrumental music. It is the first form the 
fountain of Hippocrene. Now instrumental mu- 
sic drinks from every cup and the result is that 
many times it seems drunk. 

To return to the Seven Words. Their sym- 
phonic form is the only one worth considering. 
They are eloquent enough without the aid of 
voices, for their charm penetrates. Unlike the 
Creation and the Seasons they do not demand ex- 
traordinary means of execution, and nothing is 
easier than to give them. 

The opera houses are closed on Good Fri- 
day, and it used to be the custom to give evening 
concerts, vaguely termed "Sacred Concerts/* be- 
cause their programmes were made up wholly or 
in part of religious music. This good custom 
has disappeared and with it the opportunity to 

119 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

give the public such delightful works as the 
Seven Words, and so many other things which 
harmonize with the character of the day. 

At one of these Sacred Concerts, Pasdeloup 
presented on the same evening the Credo from 
Liszt's Missa Solemnis and the one from Cheru- 
bim's Messe du Sacre. Liszt's Credo was re- 
ceived with a storm of hisses, while Cherubim's 
was praised to the skies. I could not help think- 
ing I was somewhat unjust, for Cherubini's 
work has merit of the people of Jerusalem who 
acclaimed Barrabas and demanded the crucifix- 
ion of Jesus. 

To-day Liszt's Credo is received with wild ap- 
plause Victor Hugo did his part while Cheru- 
bini's is never revived. 



120 



CHAPTER XII 

THE LISZT CENTENARY AT HEIDELBERG (1912) 

The Liszt centenary was celebrated every- 
where with elaborate festivities, perhaps most 
notably at Budapest where the Missa Solemnis 
was sung in the great cathedral that alone 
would have been sufficient glory for the com- 
poser. At Weimar, which, during his lifetime, 
Liszt made a sort of musical Mecca, they gave a 
performance of his deeply charming oratorio Die 
Legende von der Heiligen Elisabeth. The fes- 
tival at Heidelberg was of special interest as it 
was organized by the General Association of Ger- 
man Musicians which Liszt had founded fifty 
years before. Each year this society gives in a 
different city a festival which lasts several days. 
It admits foreign members and I was once a mem- 
ber as Berlioz's successor on Liszt's own invita- 
tion. Disagreements separated us, and I had 

121 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

had no relation with the society for a number of 
years when they asked me to take part in this fes- 
tival. A refusal would have been misunder- 
stood and I had to accept, although the idea of 
performing at my age alongside such virtuosi as 
Risler, Busoni, and Friedheim, in the height of 
their talent, was not encouraging. 

The festival lasted four days and there were 
six concerts four with the orchestra and a 
chorus. They gave the oratorio Christus, an 
enormous work which takes up all the time al- 
lowed for one concert; the Dante and Faust sym- 
phonies, and the symphonic poems Ce qu'on en- 
tend sur la montagne and Tasso, to mention only 
the most important works. 

The oratorio Christus lacks the fine unity of 
the Saint Elisabeth. But the two works are alike 
JUlLfiig f 'dividedinto a series of separate episodes. 
While the different episodes in Sain$ Elisabeth 
solve the difficult problem of creating variety and 
retaining unity, the parts of Christus are some- 
what unrelated. There is something for every 
taste. Certain parts arfe unqualifiedly admir- 
.able; others border on the theatrical; still others 

122 



THE LISZT CENTENARY ;(1912) 

are nearly or entirely liturgical, while, finally, 
some are picturesque, although there are some 
almost confusing. Like Gounod, Liszt was 
sometimes deceived and attributed to ordinary 
and simple sequences of chords a profound sig- 
nificance which escaped the great majority of his 
hearers. There are some pages of this sort in 
Christus. 

But there are beautiful and wonderful things 
in this vast work. If we regret that the author 
lingered too long in his imitation of the Pifferari 
of the Roman campagna, on the other hand, we 
are delighted by the symphonic interlude Les 
Bergers a la Creche. It is very simple, but in an 
inimitable simplicity of taste which is the secret 
of great artists alone. It is surprising that this 
interlude does not appear in the repertoire of all 
concerts. 

The Dante symphony has not established itself 
in the repertoires as has the Faust symphony. It 
was performed for the first time in Paris at a con- 
cert I organized and managed at a time when 
Liszt's works were distrusted. Along with the 
Dante symphony we had the Andante (Gretchen) 

123 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

from the Faust symphony, the symphonic poem 
lest Kloenge, a charming work which is never 
played now, and still other works. It would be 
hard to imagine all the opposition I had to over- 
come in giving that concert. There was the hos- 
tility of the public, the ill-will of the Theatre- 
Italien which rented me its famous hall but which 
sullenly opposed a proper announcement of the 
concert, the insubordination of the orchestra, the 
demands of the singers for more pay they imag- 
ined that Liszt would pay the expenses and, 
finally, complete and expected failure. My 
only object was to lay a foundation for the future, 
nothing more. In spite of everything I man- 
aged to get a creditable performance of the Dante 
symphony and I had the pleasure of hearing it 
for the first time. 

The first part (the Inferno) is wonderfully im- 
pressive with its Francesca da Rimini interlude, 
in which burn all the fires of Italian passion. 
The second part (Purgatory and Paradise) com- 
bines the most intense and poignant charm. It 
contains a fugue episode of unsurpassed beauty. 

Ce qu'on entend sur la montagne is, perhaps, 
124 



THE LISZT CENTENARY (1912) 

the best of the famous symphonic poems. The 
author was inspired by Victor Hugo's poetry and 
reproduced its spirit admirably. When will this 
typical work appear in the concert repertoires? 
When will orchestra conductors get tired of pre- 
senting the three or four Wagnerian works they 
repeat ad nauseum, when they can be heard at 
the Opera under better conditions, and Schu- 
bert's insignificant Unfinished Symphony. 

The Christus oratorio was given at the first 
concert of the festival at Heidelberg. It lasted 
three hours and a half and is so long that 
I would not dare to advise concert managers to 
try such an adventure. The performance was 
sublime. It was given in a newly constructed 
square hall. Cavaille-Coll, who knew acoustics, 
used to advise the square hall for concerts but no- 
body would listen to him. Three hundred 
chorus singers, many from a distance, were sup- 
ported by an orchestra that was large, but, in my 
opinion, insufficient to stand up against this mass 
of voices. Furthermore, the orchestra was 
placed below the level of the stage, as in a theatre, 

125 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

while the voices sounded freely above. Two 
harps, one on the east side of the stage and one 
on the west, saw each other from afar, a pleas- 
ingly decorative device, but as annoying to the 
ear as pleasing to the eye. The chorus and the 
four soloists their task was exceedingly ardu- 
ous triumphed completely over the difficulties 
of this immense work and all the varied and deli- 
cate nuances were rendered to perfection. 

Liszt was far from professing the disdain for 
the. limitations of the human voice that Wagner 
and Berlioz did. On the contrary he treated it as 
if it were a queen or a goddess, and it is to be re- 
gretted that his tastes did not lead him to work 
for the stage. Parts of Saint Elisabeth show that 
he would have succeeded and the fashion of hav- 
ing operas for the orchestra, accompanied by 
voices, which we enjoy to-day, might have been 
avoided. He discovered a method, peculiarly 
his own, of writing choruses. His manner has 
never been imitated, but it is ingenious and has 
many advantages. The only trouble about it is 
that the singers have to take care of details and 

126 



THE LISZT CENTENARY (1912) 

shadings which is too often the least of their wor- 
ries. The German societies, where the members 
sing for pleasure, and not for a salary, are careful 
to excess, if there can be excess in such matters, 
and it is their great good fortune to be the inter- 
preters of choruses written in this manner. 

It is impossible to give an analysis of this vast 
work here. We have already spoken of the 
charming interlude, Les Bergers a la Creche. 
This pastoral is followed by La Marche des Rois 
Mages, a pretty piece, but a little overdeveloped 
for its intrinsic worth. The vocal parts, Les Beat" 
itudes and Le Pater Noster, would be more suit- 
able in a church than in a concert hall. Then 
come some most brilliant pages, La Tempete sur 
le lac de Thiberiade, and Le Mont des Oliviers, 
with its baritone solo, and finally, the Stabat 
Mater, where great beauties are combined with 
terrible length. But nothing in the whole work 
impressed me more than Christ's entrance to 
Jerusalem (orchestra, chorus, and soloist) for 
the reading alone gives no idea of it. Here the 
author reached the heights. That also describes 

127 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the delightful effect of the children's chorus sing- 
ing in the distance Filii et Filiae, harmonised 
with perfect taste. 

While I listened to this beautiful work, I could 
not help thinking of the great oratorios which 
crowned Gounod's musical career so gloriously. 
Liszt and Gounod differed entirely in their musi- 
cal temperaments, yet in their oratorios they met 
on common ground. In both there was the same 
drawing away from the old forms of oratorio, the 
same search for realism in the expression of the 
text in music, the same respect for Latin prosody, 
and the same belief in simplicity of style. But 
while there is renunciation in the simplicity of 
Liszt, who threw aside worldly finery to wear the 
frock of a penitent, on the contrary Gounod ap- 
pears to return to his original bent with an almost 
holy joy. This is easily explained. Liszt fin- 
ished his life in a cassock, while Gounod began 
his in one. So, despite Liszt's superior refine- 
ment, and putting aside exceptional achieve- 
ments, in this branch of art Gounod was the vic- 
tor. As there is an odor di femina there is a par- 
fum tfeglise, well known to Catholics. Goun- 

128 



THE LISZT CENTENARY (1912) 

o<Ts oratorios are impregnated with this, while 
it is found in Christus very, very feebly, if at all. 
The Missa Solemnis must be examined to find it 
to any extent in Liszt's work. 

All the necessary elements were combined at 
Heidelberg to produce a magnificent production 
of Faust and Dante. The orchestra of more than 
one hundred musicians was perfect. The period 
when the wind instruments in Germany were 
wanting both in correctness and quality of sound 
has passed. But the orchestra conductors have 
to be taken into account. In our day these gen- 
tlemen are virtuosi. Their personalities are not 
subservient to the music, but the music to them. 
It is the springboard on which they perform and 
parade their all embracing personalities. They 
add their own inventions to the author's meaning. 
Sometimes they draw out the wind instruments so 
that the musicians have to cut a phrase at the end 
to catch their breath ; again they affect a mad and 
unrestrained rapidity which allows time neither 
to play nor to hear the sounds. They hurry or 
retard the movement for no reason besides their 
individual caprice or because the author did not 

129 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

indicate them. They perpetrate music of such 
a disorganized character that the musicians are 
utterly bewildered, and hesitate in their entrances 
on account of their inability to distinguish one 
measure from another. 

The delightful Purgatoire has become a deadly 
bore, and the enchanting Mephistopheles has 
been riddled as by a hailstorm. Familiarity with 
such excesses made me particularly appreciative 
of the excellent performance that Wolfrum, the 
musical director, obtained in the vast Christus 
concert. 

Among the conductors was Richard Strauss 
who cannot be passed over without a word. Cer- 
tainly no one will hope to find moderation and 
serenity in this artist or be surprised if he gives 
his temperament free rein, and rides on to vic- 
tory undisturbed by the ruins he leaves behind. 
But he lacks neither intelligence nor elegance, 
and if he sometimes goes too fast he never over- 
emphasizes slowness. When he is conducting, 
we need not fear the desert of Sahara where oth- 
ers sometimes lead us. Under his direction 
Tasso displayed all its wealth of resources and the 

130 



THE LISZT CENTENARY (1912) 

jewel-like Mephisto-Walzer shone more brightly 
than ever before. 

I can speak but briefly of the numerous solo- 
ists. We neither judge nor compare such talents 
as those of Busoni, Friedheim, and Risler. We 
are satisfied with admiring them. However, if a 
prize must be awarded, I should give it to Risler 
for his masterly interpretation of the great Sonata 
in B minor. He made the most of it in every 
way, in all its power and in all its delicacy. 
When it is given in this way, it is one of the finest 
sonatas imaginable. But such a performance is 
rare, for it is beyond the average artist. The 
strength of an athlete, the lightness of a bird, ca- 
priciousness, charm, and a perfect understanding 
of style in general and of the style of this com- 
poser in particular are the qualifications needed 
to perform this work. It is far too difficult for 
most virtuosi, however talented they may be. 

Among the women singers I shall only men- 
tion Madame Cahier from the Viennese Opera. 
She is a great artist with a wonderful voice and 
her interpretation of several lieder made them 
wonderfully worth while. Madame Cahier in- 

131 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

terpreted the part of Dalik at Vienna with Dai- 
mores, so it can easily be appreciated how much 
pleasure I took in hearing her. 

A final word about the Dante Symphony. I 
have read somewhere that Liszt used pages to 
produce an effect which Berlioz accomplished in 
the apparition of Mephistopheles in Faust with 
three notes. This comparison is unjust. Ber- 
lioz's happy discovery is a work of genius and he 
alone could have invented it. But the sudden 
appearance of the Devil is one thing and the de- 
piction of Hell quite another. Berlioz tried such 
a depiction at the end of the Damnation, and in 
spite of the strange vocabulary of the chorus, 
"Irimiru Karabrao, Sat raik Irkimour," and other 
pretty tricks, he succeeded no better than Liszt. 
As a matter of fact the opposite was the case. 



132 



CHAPTER 
BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 

The reading of the score of Berlioz's Requiem 
makes it appear singularly old-fashioned, but this 
is true of most of the romantic dramas, which, 
like the Requiem, show up better in actual 
performance. It is easy to rail at the vehemence 
of the Romanticists., but it is not so easy to equal 
the effect of Hernani, Lucrece Borgia and the 
Symphonie fantastique on the public. For with 
all their faults these works had a marvellous suc- 
cess. The truth is that their vehemence was 
sincere and not artificial. The Romanticists had 
faith in their works and there is nothing like 
faith to produce lasting results. 

Reicha and Leuseur were, as we know, Ber- 
lioz's instructors. Leuseur was the author of 
numerous works and wrote a good deal of church! 
music. Some of his religious works were really 

133 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

beautiful, but he had strange obsessions. Ber- 
lioz greatly admired his master and could not 
help showing, especially in his earlier works, 
traces of this admiration. That is the reason 
for the syncopated and jerky passages without 
rhyme or reason and which can only be explained 
by his unconscious imitation of Leuseur's faults. 
In imitating a model the resemblances occur in 
the faults and not in the excellences, for the lat- 
ter are inimitable. So the excellences of the 
Requiem are not due to Leuseur but to Berlioz. 
He had already thrown off the trammels of school 
and shown all the richness of his vigorous orig- 
inality to which the value of his scores is due. 

In his Memoirs Berlioz related the tribulations 
of his Requiem. It was ordered by the govern- 
ment, laid aside for a time, and, finally, per- 
formed at the Invalides on the occasion of the cap- 
ture of Constantine (in Algeria) and the funeral 
services of General Damremont. He was aston- 
ished at the lack of sympathy and even actual 
hostility that he encountered. It would have 
been more astonishing if he had experienced any- 
thing else. 

134 




Hector Berlioz 



BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 

We must remember that at this time Berton, 
who sang Quand on est toujours vertuex, on aime 
a voir lever I'aurore, passed for a great man. 
Beethoven's symphonies were a novelty, in Paris 
at least, and a scandal. Haydn's symphonies in- 
spired a critic to write, "What a noise, what a 
noise!" Orchestras were merely collections of 
thirty or forty musicians. 

We can imagine, therefore, the stupefaction 
and horror when a young man, just out of school, 
demanded fifty violins, twenty violas, twenty 
violoncellos, eighteen contrabasses, four flutes, 
four oboes, four clarinets, eight bassoons, twelve 
horns, and a chorus of two hundred voices as a 
minimum. And that is not all. The Tuba 
Mirum necessitates an addition of thirty-eight 
trumpets and trombones, divided into four or- 
chestras and placed at the four cardinal points 
of the compass. Besides, there have to be eight 
pairs of drums, played by ten drummers, four 
tam-tams, and ten cymbals. 

The story of this array of drums is rather in- 
teresting* Reicha, Berlioz's first teacher, had 
the original idea of playing drum taps in chords 

135 



MUSICAE MEMORIES 

of three or four beats. In order to try out this 
effect, he composed a choral piece, UHarmonie 
des Spheres, which was published in connection 
with his Traite d'Harmonie. But Reicha's gen- 
ius did not suffice for this task. He was a good 
musician, but no more than that. His choral 
piece was insignificant and remained a dead let- 
ter. Berlioz took this lost effect and used it in 
his Tuba Mirum. 

However, it must be confessed that this effect 
does not come up to expectations. In a church 
or a concert hall we hear a confused and terrify- 
ing mingling of sounds, and from time to time we 
note a change in the depth of tone but we are 
unable to distinguish the pitch of the chords. 

I shall never forget the impression this Tuba 
Mirum made on me when I first heard it at St. 
Eustache under Berlioz's own direction. It 
amounted to an absolute neglect of the author's 
directions. The beginning of the work is 
marked moderate, later, as the brass comes in, 
the movement is quickened and becomes andante 
maestro. Most of the time the moderato was in- 
terpreted as an allegro, and the andante maestro 

136 



BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 

as a simple moderate. If the terrific fanfare 
did not become, as some one ventured to call it, a 
"Setting Out for the Hunt/' it might well have 
been the accompaniment for a sovereign's en- 
trance to his capital. In order to give this fan- 
fare its grandiose character, the author did not 
take easy refuge in the waitings of a minor key, 
but he burst into the splendors of a major key. 
A certain grandeur of movement alone can pre- 
serve its gigantesque quality and impression of 
power. 

Granting all his good intentions, in trying to 
give us a suggestion of the last judgment by his 
accumulation of brass, drums, cymbals, and tam- 
tams, Berlioz makes us think of Thor among the 
giants trying to empty the drinking-horn which 
was filled from the sea, and only succeeding in 
lowering it a little. Yet even that was an ac- 
complishment. 

Berlioz spoke scornfully of Mozart's Tuba 
'Mirum with its single trombone. "One trom- 
bone," he exclaimed, "when a hundred would be 
none too many!" Berlioz wanted to make us 
really hear the trumpets of the archangels. Mo- 

137 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

zart with the seven notes of his one trombone 
suggested the same idea and the suggestion is 
sufficient. 

We must not forget, however, that here we 
are in the inidst of a world of romanticism, in a 
world of color and picturesqueness, which could 
not content itself with so little. And we must 
remember this fact, if we would not be irritated 
by the oddities of UHostias, with its deep trom- 
bone notes which seem to come from the very 
depths of Hell. There is no use in trying to find 
out what these notes mean. Berlioz told us him- 
self that he discovered these notes at a time when 
they were almost unknown and he wanted to use 
them. The contrast between these terrifying 
notes and the wailing of the flutes is especially 
curious. We find nothing analogous to this any- 
where else. 

The delightful Purgatoire, where the author 
sees a chorus of souls in Purgatory, is much bet- 
ter. His Purgatory has no punishments nor any 
griefs save the awaiting, the long and painful 
awaiting, of eternal happiness. There is a pro- 
cessional in which the fugue and melody alter- 

138 



BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 

nate in the most felicitous manner. There are 
sighs and plaints, all haunting in their extreme 
expressiveness, a great variety beneath an ap- 
pearance of monotony, and from time to time two 
wailing notes. These notes are always the same, 
as the chorus gives them as a plaint, and they are 
both affecting and artistic. At the end comes 
a Him ray of light and hope. This is the only one 
in the work save the Amen at the end, for Faith 
and Hope should not be looked for here. The 
supplications sound like prayers which do not 
expect to be answered. No one would dare to 
describe this work as profane, but whether it is 
religious or not is a question. As Boschot has 
said, what it expresses above all is terror in the 
presence of annihilation. 

When the Requiem was played at the Troca- . 
dero, the audience was greatly impressed and 
filed out slowly. They did not say, "What a 
masterpiece!" but "What an orchestra leader!" 
Nowadays people go to see a conductor direct the 
orchestra just as they go to hear a tenor, and they 
arrogate to themselves the right to judge the con- 
ductors as they do the tenors. But what a fine 

139 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Sport it is ! The qualities of an orchestra con- 
ductor which the public appreciates are his ele- 
gance, his gestures, his precision, and the expres- 
siveness of his mimicry, all of which are more 
often directed at the audience than at the orches- 
tra. But all these things are of secondary con- 
sideration. What makes up an orchestra conduc- 
tor's worth are the excellence of execution he ob- 
tains from the musicians and the perfect inter- 
pretation of the author's meaning which the 
audience does not understand. If such an im- 
portant detail as the author's meaning is obscured 
and slighted, if a work is disfigured by absurd 
movements and by an expression which is entirely 
different from what the author wanted, the public 
may be dazzled and an execrable conductor, pro- 
vided his poses are good, may fascinate his audi- 
ence and be praised to the skies. 

Formerly the conductor never saluted his audi- 
ence. The understanding was that the work and 
not the conductor was applauded. The Italians 
and Germans changed all that. Lamoureux was 
the first to introduce this exotic custom in France. 
The public was a little surprised at first, but they 

140 



BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 

soon got used to it. In Italy the conductor 
comes on the stage with the artists to salute the 
audience. There is nothing more laughable 
than to see him, as the last note of an opera dies 
away, jump down from his stand and run like 
mad to reach the stage in time. 

The excellence of the work of English choris- 
ters has been highly and justly praised. Per- 
haps it would be fairer not to praise them so unre- 
servedly when we are so severe on our own. Jus- 
tice often leaves something to be desired. At all 
events it must be admitted that Berlioz treated the 
voices in an unfortunate way. Like Beethoven, 
he made no distinction between a part for a voice 
and an instrument. While except for a few rare 
passages it does not fall as low as the atrocities 
which disfigure the grandiose Mass in D, the vo- 
cal part of the Requiem is awkwardly written. 
Singers are ill at ease in it, for the timbre and reg- 
ularity of the voice resent such treatment. The 
tenor's part is so written that he is to be congratu- 
lated on getting through it without any accident, 
and nothing more can be expected of him. 

What a pity it was that Berlioz did not fall in 
141 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

love with an Italian singer instead of an EnglisK 
tragedienne ! Cupid might have wrought a mir- 
acle. The author of the Requiem would have 
lost none of his good qualities, but he might have 
gained, what, for the lack of a better phrase, is 
called the fingering of the voice, the art of han- 
dling it intelligently and making it give without 
an effort the best effect of which it is capable. 
But Berlioz had a horror even of the Italian lan- 
guage, musical as that is. As he said in his 
Memoirs, this aversion hid from him the true 
worth of Don Juan and Le Nozze di Figaro. One 
wonders whether he knew that his idol, Gluck, 
wrote music for Italian texts not only in the case 
of his first works but also in Orphee and Alceste. 
And whether he knew that the aria "0 malheur- 
euse Iphigenie" was an Italian song badly trans- 
lated into French. Perhaps he was ignorant of 
all this in his youth for Berlioz was a genius, not 
a scholar. 

The word genius tells the whole story. Ber- 
lioz wrote badly. He maltreated voices and 
sometimes permitted himself the strangest freaks. 
Nevertheless he is one of the Commanding figures 

142 



BERLIOZ'S REQUIEM 

of musical art. His great works remind us of the 
Alps with their forests, glaciers., sunlight, water- 
falls and chasms. There are people who do not 
like the Alps. So much the worse for them. 



143 



CHAPTER XIV 

PAULINE VIAJRDOT 

Alfred de Musset covered Maria Malibran's 
tomb with immortal flowers and he also told us 
the story of Pauline Garcia's debut. There is 
also something about it in Theophile Gautier's 
writings. It is clear from both accounts that her 
first appearance was an extraordinary occasion. 
Natures such as hers reveal themselves at once to 
those who know and do not have to wait to arrive 
until they are in full bloom. Pauline was very 
young at the time, and soon afterwards she mar- 
ried M. Viardot, manager of the Theatre-Italien 
and one of the finest men of his day. She went 
abroad to develop her talent, but she returned in 
1849 when Meyerbeer named her to create the 
role of Fides in Le Prophete. 

Her voice was tremendously powerful, prodig- 
ious in its range, and it overcame all the difficul- 

144 



PAULINE VIARDOT 

ties in the art of singing. But this marvellous 
voice did not please everyone, for it was by no 
means smooth and velvety. Indeed, it was a 
little harsh and was likened to the taste of a bit- 
ter orange. But it was just the voice for a trag- 
edy or an epic, for it was superhuman rather than 
human. Light things like Spanish songs and 
Chopin mazurkas, which she used to transpose so 
that she could sing them, were completely trans- 
formed by that voice and became the playthings 
of an Amazon or of a giantess. She lent an in- 
comparable grandeur to tragic parts and to the 
severe dignity of the oratorio. 

I never had the pleasure of hearing Madame 
Malibran, but Rossini told me about her. He 
preferred her sister. Madame Malibran, he 
said, had the advantage of beauty. In addition, 
she died young and left a memory of an artist in 
full possession of all her powers. She was not 
the equal of her sister as a musician and could not 
have survived the decline of her voice as the latter 
did. 

Madame Viardot was not beautiful, indeed, 
she was far from it. The portrait by Ary Schef- 

145 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

fer is the only one which shows this unequalled 
woman truthfully and gives some idea of her 
strange and powerful fascination. What made 
her even more captivating than her talent as a 
singer was her personality one of the most 
amazing I have ever known. She spoke and 
wrote fluently Spanish, French, Italian, English 
and German. She was in touch with all the cur- 
rent literature of these countries and in corres- 
pondence with people all over Europe. 

She did not remember when she learned music. 
In the Garcia family music was in the air they 
breathed. So she protested against the tradi- 
tion which represented her father as a tyrant who 
whipped his daughters to make them sing. I 
have no idea how she learned the secrets of com- 
position, but save for the management of the or- 
chestra she knew them well. She wrote numer- 
ous lieder on Spanish and German texts and all of 
these show a faultless diction. But contrary to 
the custom of most composers who like nothing 
better than to show their compositions, she con- 
cealed hers as though they were indiscretions. 
It was exceedingly difficult to persuade her to let 

146 




-= -'K'^,' ' 

r v --,. i* \-r - l 



rt fi' 




Mme, Pauline, Viardot 



PAULINE VIARDOT 

one hear them, although the least were highly 
creditable. Once she sang a Spanish popular 
song, a wild haunting thing, with which Rubin- 
stein fell madly in love. It was several years be- 
fore she would admit that she wrote it herself. 

She wrote brilliant operettas in collaboration 
with Tourguenief , but they were never published 
and were performed only in private. One anec- 
dote will show her versatility as a composer. 
She was a friend of Chopin and Liszt and her 
tastes were strongly futuristic. M. Viardot, on 
the contrary, was a reactionary in music* He 
even found Beethoven too advanced. One day 
they had a guest who was also a reactionary. 
Madame Viardot sang to them a wonderful work 
with recitative, aria and final allegro, which they 
praised to the skies. She had written it ex- 
pressly for the occasion. I have read this work 
and even the cleverest would have been deceived. 

But it must not be thought from this that her 
compositions were mere imitations. On the con- 
trary they were extremely original. The only 
explanation why those that were published have 
remained unknown and why so many were un- 

147 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

published is that this admirable artist had a hor- 
ror of publicity. She spent half her life in teach- 
ing pupils and the world knew nothing about it. 

During the Empire the Viardots used to give in 
their apartment on Thursday evenings really fine 
musical festivals which my surviving contempo- 
raries still remember. From the salon in which 
the famous portrait by Ary Scheffer was hung and 
which was devoted to ordinary instrumental and 
vocal music, we went down a short staircase to a 
gallery filled with valuable paintings, and finally 
to an exquisite organ, one of Cavaille-Coll's mas- 
terpieces. In this temple dedicated to music we 
listened to arias from the oratorios of Handel and 
Mendelssohn. She had sung them in London, 
but could not get a hearing for them in the con- 
certs in Paris as they were averse to such vast 
compositions. I had the honor to be her regular 
accompanist both at the organ and the piano. 

But this passionate lover of song was an all- 
round musician. She played the piano admir- 
ably, and when she was among friends she over- 
came the greatest difficulties. Before her Thurs^ 
day audiences, however, she limited herself to 

148 



PAULINE VIARDOT 

chamber music, with a special preference for 
Henri Reber's duets for the piano and the violin. 
These delicate, artistic works are unknown to the 
amateurs of to-day. They seem to prefer to the 
pure juice of the grape in crystal glasses poison- 
ous potions in cups of gold. They must have or- 
gies, sumptuous ceilings, a deadly luxury. 
They do not understand the poet who sings, "O 
rus 9 quando te aspiciam!" They do not appre- 
ciate the great distinction of simplicity. Reber's 
muse is not for them. 

Madame Viardot was as learned a musician as 
any one could be and she was among the first sub- 
scribers to the complete edition of Sebastian 
Bach's works. We know what an astounding 
revelation that work was. Each year brought 
ten religious cantatas, and each year brought us 
new surprises in the unexpected variety and im- 
pressiveness of the work. We thought we had 
known Sebastian Bach, but now we learned how 
really to know him. We found him a writer of 
unusual versatility and a great poet. His Wohl- 
temperirte Klavier had given us only a hint of 
all this. The beauties of this famous work 

149 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

needed exposition for, in the absence of definite 
instructions, opinions differed. In the cantatas 
the meaning of the words serves as an indication 
and through the analogy between the forms of 
expression, it is easy to see pretty clearly what 
the author intended in his Klavier pieces. 

One fine day the annual volume was found to 
contain a cantata in several parts written for a 
contralto solo accompanied by stringed instru- 
ments, oboes and an organ obligate. The organ 
was there and the organist as well. So we as- 
sembled the instruments, Stockhausen, the bari- 
tone, was made the leader of the little orchestra, 
and Madame Viardot sang the cantata. I sus- 
pect that the author had never heard his work 
sung in any such manner. I cherish the mem- 
ory of that day as one of -the most precious in my 
musical career. My mother and M. Viardot 
were the only listeners to this exceptional exhibi- 
tion. We did not dare to repeat it before hearers 
who were not ready for it. What would now be 
a great success would have fallen flat at that time. 
And nothing is more irritating than to see an 
audience cold before a beautiful work. It is far 

150 



PAULINE VIARDOT 

better to keep to one's self treasures which will be 
unappreciated. 

One thing will always stand in the way of the 
vogue of Sebastian Bach's vocal works the dif- 
ficulty of translation. When they are rendered 
into French, they lose all their charm and often- 
*f raes become ridiculous. 

One of the most amazing characteristics of 
Madame Viardot's talent was her astonishing fa- 
cility in assimilating all styles of music. She 
was trained in the old Italian music and she re- 
vealed its beauties as no one else has ever done. 
As for myself, I saw only its faults. Then she 
sang Schumann and Gluck and even Glinka 
whom she sang in Russian. Nothing was for- 
eign to her; she was at home everywhere. 

She was a great friend of Chopin and she re- 
membered his playing almost exactly and could 
give the most valuable directions about the way 
he interpreted his works. I learned from her 
that the great pianist's (great musician's, rather) 
execution was much simpler than has been gen- 
erally supposed. It was as far removed from 

151 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

any manifestation of bad taste as it was from cold 
correctness. She told me the secret of the true 
tempo rubato without which Chopin's music is 
disfigured. It in no way resembles the disloca- 
tions by which it is so often caricatured. 

I have spoken of her great talent as a pianist. 
We saw this one evening at a concert given by 
Madame Schumann. After Madame Viardot 
had sung some of Schumann's lieder with the 
great pianist playing the accompaniments, the 
two great artists played the illustrious author's 
duet for two pianos, which fairly bristles with dif- 
ficulties, with equal virtuosity. 

When Madame Viardot's voice began to break, 
she was advised to devote herself to the piano. 
If she had, she would have found a new career 
and a second reputation. But she did not want 
to make the change, and for several years she pre- 
sented the sorry spectacle of genius contending 
with adversity. Her voice was broken, stub- 
born, uneven, and intermittent. An entire gen- 
eration knew her only in a guise unworthy of her. 

Her immoderate love of music was the cause of 
the early modification of her voice. She wanted 

152 



PAULINE VIARDOT 

to sing everything she liked and she sang Valen- 
tine in Les Huguenots, Donna Anna in Don Juan, 
besides other roles she should never have under- 
taken if she wanted to preserve her voice. She 
came to realize this at the end of her life. 
"Don't do as I did," she once told a pupil. "I 
wanted to sing everything, and I mined my 



voice." 



Happy are the fiery natures which hum them- 
selves out and glory in the sword that wears away 
the scabbard. 



153 



CHAPTER XV 

ORPHEE 

We know, or, rather we used to know f or we 
are beginning to forget that there is an admir- 
able edition of Gluek's principal works. This 
edition was due to the interest of an unusual 
woman, Mile. Fanny Pelletan, who devoted a part 
of her fortune to this real monument and to fulfill 
a wish Berlioz expressed in one of his works. 
Mile. Pelletan was an unusually intelligent 
woman and an accomplished musician, but she 
needed some one to help her in this large and 
formidable task. She was unassuming and dis- 
trusted her own powers, so that she secured as a 
collaborator a German musician, named Damcke, 
who had lived in Paris a long time and who was 
highly esteemed. He gave her the moral sup- 
port she needed and some bad advice as well, 
which she felt obliged to follow. This collabora- 

154 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

tion accounts for the change of the contralto parts 
to counter-tenors. It also accounts for the fact 
that in every instance the parts for the clarinets 
are indicated in C, in this way attributing to the 
author a formal intention he never had. Gluck 
wrote the parts for the clarinets without bother- 
ing whether the player to whom he left a free- 
dom of choice and the work of transposition 
would use his instrument in C, B, or A. This 
method was not peculiar to GlucL Other -com- 
posers used it as well, and traces of it are found 
even in Auber's works. 

After Damcke*s death Mile. Pelletan got .me 
to help her in this work. I wanted to change the 
method, but the edition would have lost its unity 
and she would not consent It was lime that 
Damcke's collaboration ended. He -belonged to 
the tribe of German professors who have since be- 
come legion, Due to their baneful influence, in 
a short time, when the old editions have disap- 
peared, the works of Haydn, Mozart, dnd .Bee- 
thoven, even of Chopin, will be all but unrecog- 
nizable. The works of Sebastian Bach and 
Handel will be the only ones in existence in their 

155 



ORPHEE 

pristine purity of form, thanks to the admirable 
editions of the Back und Handel Gesselschaft. 

When Mile. Pelletan brought me into the 
work, the two Iphigenie had been published; Al- 
ceste was about to be, and Armide was ready. In 
Armide Damcke had been entirely carried away 
by his zeal for "improvements" a zeal that can 
do so much harm. It was time this was stopped. 
Not only had he corrected imaginary faults here 
and there, but he had also inserted things of his 
own invention. He had even gone so far as to 
re-orchestrate the ballet music, in the naive be- 
lief that he was bringing out the author's real 
meaning better than he had done himself. It 
took an enormous amount of time to undo this 
mischief, for I distrusted somewhat my own lights 
and Mile. Pelletan had too high an opinion of 
Damcke's work and did not dare to override his 
judgment. 

That excellent woman did not live to see the 
end of her work. She began the preparation of 
Orphee, but she died almost at once. So I was 
left to finish the score alone without that valuable 
experience and masterly insight by which she 

156 



ORPHEE 

solved the most difficult problems. And there 
were real enigmas to be solved at every step. 
The old engraved scores of Gluck's works repro- 
duced his manuscripts faithfully enough, but 
they bore evidence of carelessness and amazing 
inaccuracy. They are mere sketches instead of 
complete scores. Many details are vague and 
vagueness is not permissible in a serious edition. 
It follows that the different editions of Gluck's 
works published in the Nineteenth Century, how- 
ever sumptuous or careful they may be, are 
worthless. The Pelletan edition alone can be 
consulted with confidence, because we were the 
only ones to have all extant and authentic docu^ 
ments in the library at the Opera to set us right. 
We had scores copied for actual performances 
on the stage and portions of orchestral parts of 
incalculable value. In addition, we had no aim 
or preoccupation in elaborating this material 
other than to reconstitute as closely as possible 
the thought of the author. 

Switzerland is a country where artistic produc- 
tions are not unusual. Every year we have re- 

157 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ports of some grandiose performance in which 
the people take part themselves. They come 
from every direction to help, even from a consid- 
erable distance, thanks to the many means of 
communication in that delightful land. It is not 
surprising, therefore, to learn that a theatre has 
been built in the pretty town of Mezieres, near 
Lusanne, for the performance of the works of a 
young poet, named Morax. These works are 
dramas with choruses, and the surrounding coun- 
try furnishes the singers. The work given in 
1911 was Allenor the music by Gustave Doret 
and it was a great success. 

Gustave Doret is a real artist and he never for 
a moment thought of keeping the Theatre du 
Jorat for his own exclusive use. He dreamt of 
giving Gluck's works in their original form, for 
they are always altered and changed according to 
the fancies or incompetency of the performers or 
directors. They formed a large and influential 
committee and a substantial guarantee fund was 
subscribed. Then they gave a brilliant banquet 
at which the Princess of Brancovan was present. 
And Paderewski, one of the most enthusiastic 

158 



ORPHEE 

promoters of the enterprise, delivered an elo- 
quent address. No one should be surprised at 
either his zeal or his eloquence. Paderewski is 
not only a pianist; he is a man of great intellect 
as well, a great artist who permits himself the 
luxury of playing the piano marvellously. 

As he knew that I had spent several years in 
studying Gluck's works under the microscope, so 
to speak, Gustave Doret did me the honor to ask 
my advice. His choice for the opening work was 
Orphee, which requires only three principals, Or- 
pheus, Eurydice, and Love. It has become the 
custom to add a fourth, a Happy Spirit, but this 
spirit is one of Carvalho's inventions and has no 
reason for existence. 

There are, however, two Orphee. The first is 
Orfeo which was written in Italian, on Calzabigfs 
text, and was first presented at Venice in 1761. 
The role of Orpheus in this score was written for a 
.contralto and was designed for the eunuch Quad- 
agni. The Venetian engravers of that day were 
either incompetent or, perhaps, there were none, 
for the scores of Gluck's Alceste in Italian and 
Haydn's Seasons were printed from type. How- 

159 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ever that may be the score of Orfeo was engraved 
in Paris. The composer Philidor corrected the 
proofs. He little thought that Orfeo would ever 
get so far as Paris, so he appropriated the ro- 
manza in the first act and introduced it with but 
slight modifications into his opera-comique Le 
Sorcier. Later on Marie Antoinette called 
Gluck to Paris and thus afforded him the oppor- 
tunity for the complete development of his gen- 
ius. After he had written Iphigenie en Aulide, 
performed in 1774, especially for the Opera, he 
had the idea of adapting Orfeo for the French 
stage. To tell the truth he must have thought 
of it before, for Orphee appeared at the Opera 
only three months after Iphigenie and it had been 
entirely rewritten in collaboration with Moline. 
The contralto part had been changed to tenor and 
so the principal role was given to Legros. 

While it may be true that the author improved 
this work in the French version, it is not true in 
every .case. There is some question whether the 
overture existed in the Italian score. It is gener- 
ally believed that it did, but there are old copies 

160 



ORPHEE 

of this version in existence and they begin the 
opera with the funeral chorus and show no over- 
ture at all. This overture, although the Mer- 
cure de France treats it as a "beautiful symphonic 
piece which serves as a good introduction to the 
work," in reality does not resemble the style of 
the rest at all. It in no way prepares for that 
admirable chorus at the beginning unequaled 
of its kind which Orpheus's broken hearted cry 
of "Eurydice! Eurydice!" makes so pathetic. 

The first act of Orfeo ends in a tumultuous 
effect of the stringed instruments which was evi- 
dently intended to indicate a change of scene and 
the appearance of the stage settings of the in- 
fernal regions. This passage does not appear in 
the French Orphee and it is lacking in the en- 
graved score, where it is replaced by a bravura 
aria of doubtful taste, accompanied by a single 
quartet. Whether the stage managers wanted 
an entr'acte or the tenor, Legros, demanded an 
effective aria, or for both these reasons, a reading 
of the manuscript indicates how absolutely the 
author's meaning was changed* There is no 

161 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

doubt that except for some such reason he would 
have changed this aria and put it in harmony with 
the rest of the work. 

For a long time this aria was attributed to Ber- 
toni, the composer, and Gluck was accused of 
plagiarizing it. As a matter of fact, and to the 
contrary, this aria came from an older Italian 
opera of Gluck's. Bertoni not only imitated it in 
one of his scores, but he had the hardihood to 
write an Orfeo on the text already followed by 
Gluck in which he plagiarized the work of his 
illustrious predecessor in a scandalous fashion. 

This same aria, changed with real genius and 
performed with prodigious eclat by Madame Viar- 
dot, and re-orchestrated by myself, was one of 
the strongest reasons for the success of the fa- 
mous performances at the Theatre-Lyrique. 
But it is well understood that it could not properly 
find a place in an edition where the sole end was 
artistic sincerity and purity of the text. 

From this point of view it would seem that the 
best manner of giving Orphee would be to con- 
form to the author's definitive version. A tenor 
would have to take the part of Orpheus, since we 

162 



ORPHEE 

no longer Have male contraltos, and to keep to 
this kind of a voice in Orphee we would have to 
have recourse to what is called, in theatrical 
terms, a travesti. There are obstacles to this, 
however. The pitch has changed since the 
Eighteenth Century; it has gone up and it is now 
impossible, or nearly so, to sing the role written 
for Legros. The contraltos of the Italian chorus 
have become the counter-tenors, who 9 for the 
same reason, find themselves struggling with too 
sharp notes. 

In the Seventeenth Century the French pitch 
was even more flat, and it is a great pity, for it is 
almost impossible to perform our old music, on 
account of the insuperable obstacles. This is 
not the case in Germany, however, or in Italy, and 
that is the reason why the works of Sebastian 
Bach and Mozart can be sung. The same is true 
of Gluck's Italian works. 

This was the reason that Doret gave the part of 
Orpheus to a contralto, just as is done at the 
Opera-Comique. The poetic character of the 
part of Orpheus lends itself excellently to such 
a feminine interpretation. But in resuming the 

163 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

key of the Italian score, it is necessary to go back, 
at least to a considerable degree, to the instru- 
mentation* By a curious anomaly the beautiful 
recitative, accompanied by the murmur of brooks 
and the songs of the birds, is in C major in both 
scores. The author could not have changed 
them. On the contrary he modified his instru- 
mentation greatly, simplified and perfected it. 

We know that the authors, in utter defiance of 
mythology, wanted a happy ending and so 
brought Eurydice back to life a second time* 
Love accomplished this miracle and the work 
ended with the song "Love Triumphs," which is 
exceedingly joyful and in harmony with the situa- 
tion. They did not want this ending, which was 
in Orfeo and which Gluck retained in Orphee, at 
the old Theatre-Lyrique and the Opera-Comique, 
and they replaced it with a chorus by Echo and 
Narcissus. This chorus is charming, but that 
does not excuse it. Joy was what the author 
wanted and this does not give joy at all. Gluck's 
finale is regarded as not sufficiently distinguished, 
but this is wrong. The real finale was sung at 

164 



ORPHEE 

Mezieres and it was found that it was not at all 
common, but that its frank gaiety was in the best 
of taste. 

Gluck had no scruples about grinding several 
grists from the same sack and drawing from his 
old works to help out his new ones. So the par- 
asitical aria attributed to Bertoni was written by 
Gluck in the first place in 1764 for a soprano. 
He wove this into his opera Aristo in 1769. 
This is also true of the trio, Tendre Amour, which 
precedes the finale in the last act. A serious- 
minded analyst might be tempted to admire the 
profound psychology of the author in mingling 
doleful accents with expressions of joy, but he 
would have his labor for his pains. The trio 
was taken from the opera Elena e Paride, where 
Gluck expressed strongly wrought up emotions. 
Doret did not keep these two passages and one 
can't blame him. On the other hand, he re- 
tained, by making it an entr'acte, the Ballet de$ 
Furies. This was taken from a ballet, Don Gio- 
vanni o il convitato de pietra, which was per- 
formed at Vienna in 1761. This passage was 

165 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

used as the accompaniment to Don Juan's de- 
scent into Hell, surrounded by his band of de- 
mons. 

Many of Gluck's compatriots came to Mezieres 
to see Orphee and they were loyal enough to rec- 
ognize the superiority of the performance. 
Some even had the courage to say, "We murder 
Gluck in Germany." 

I discovered that fact a long time ago. In my 
youth I was indignant when I saw Paris, where 
Gluck wrote his finest works, quite neglecting 
them, whereas Germany continued to promote 
them. In those days I was frequently called to 
the other side of the Rhine to pky in concerts, 
and I watched for a chance to see one of these 
masterpieces which had been forgotten in France. 
So it was with the liveliest joy that one day I 
entered one of the leading German theaters where 
they were giving Armide. What a hollow mock- 
ery it was! 

Madame Malten was Armide, and she was 
everything that could be wished in voice, talent, 
style, beauty and charm. She spoke French 
without an accent and was as remarkable as an 

166 



ORPHEE 

actress as a singer, so she would without doubt 
have had great success at the Opera in Paris. 
She was Arxnide herself, an irresistible enchant- 
ress. 

But the rest ! Renaud was a raw boy, and his 
shaven chin brought out in sharp relief enormous 
black moustaches with long waxed ends. He 
had a voice, to be sure, but no style, and no un- 
derstanding of the work he was trying to inter- 
pret. 

Hidradot is an old sorcerer tempered in the 
fires of Hell. He enters, saying: 

"I see hard by Death that threatens me, 
And already old age, that has chilled my blood, 
Is on me, bowing me beneath a crushing burden." 

Imagine my surprise at seeing come on the 
stage a magnificent specimen of manhood, with a 
curled black beard, in all the glory of his youth 
and \igor superbly arrayed in a red cloak 
trimmed with gold ! 

The stage setting was also extraordinary. In 
the second act Renaud went to sleep at the back 
of the stage, forcing Armide to speak the whole 

167 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

of the beautiful scene which follows, one of the 
most important in the part, at a distance from the 
footlights and with her back to the audience. 

As for the orchestra, sometimes it followed 
Gluck's text and sometimes it borrowed bits of or- 
chestration which Meyerbeer had written for the 
Opera at Berlin. This orchestration is interest- 
ing, and I know it well for I have had it in hand. 
It is only fair to say that Gluck, from some in- 
explicable caprice, did not give the same care to 
the instrumentation oiArmide that he did to Or- 
phee, Akesti, and the Iphigenies. The trom- 
bones do not appear at all and the drums and 
flutes only at rare intervals. Re-orchestration is 
not absolutely necessary and Meyerbeer's is no 
more reprehensible than those with which Mozart 
enriched Handel's Messe and La Fete d'Alexan- 
dre. What was inadmissible was not deciding 
frankly for one version or the other. It was like 
a badly patched coat which shows the old cloth 
in one place and the new in another. 

Afterwards I saw Arndde treated in another 
way. 

Did you ever happen to cherish the memory of 
168 



ORPHEE 

a delightful and picturesque city, where every- 
thing made a harmonious whole, where the beau- 
tiful walks were arched over by old trees and 
later come back to it to find it embellished, the 
trees cut down, the walks replaced by enormous 
buildings which dwarfed into insignificance the 
ancient marvels which gave the city its charm? 

This was the case with me when I saw Armide 
again in a city which I shall not name. The 
opera had been judged superannuated and had 
been "improved." A young composer had writ- 
ten a new score in which he inserted here and 
there such bits of Gluck as he thought worthy of 
being preserved. A costly and magnificently im- 
becile luxuriousness set off the whole piece. I 
may be pardoned the cruel adjective when I say 
that in the scene of Hate, so deeply inspired, and 
which takes place in a sort of cave, they relegated 
the chorus to the wings to make a pkce for drag- 
ons, fantastic birds beating their wings, and other 
deviltries. This, of course, deprived the chorus 
of all its power and distinction. 

But the best was at the end of the second act. 
The forest with its trees, grass and rocks entirely 

169 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

disappeared in the flies taking Renaud and Ar- 
mide with it and the spectator was left, for some 
unknown reason, looking at a background sur- 
rounded by mountains* Then, by a marvel of 
mechanism, there appeared to the sound of ultra- 
modern music, Renaud sleeping on a bed of state, 
with Armide standing at the foot and stretching 
forth her hand with a gesture of authority, de- 
claiming in a solemn tone, 

"Rinaldo, I love you!" 

and the curtain fell to the applause of the audi- 
ence. 

We owe much to Germany in music, for it has 
produced many great musicians*, It can set off 
against our trinity of Corneille, Racine, and Mol- 
iere, the no less glorious Haydn, Mozart and Bee- 
thoven. But Germany seems to have lost all 
respect for the meaning of its own music and for 
its own glories. Instead of watching over the 
purity of the text of its masterpieces, it alters 
them at its pleasure and makes: them all but un- 
recognizable. We abuse nuances but they were 

170 



ORPHEE 

rare in earlier days. An orchestra conductor 
who performs symphonies by Haydn and Mozart, 
even by Beethoven, has the right to make addi- 
tions. But it is intolerable that the scores 
should be printed with these nuances and bow- 
ings which are in no way due to the author and 
which are imposed by the editor. Nevertheless, 
that is what happens, and it is impossible to tell 
where the authentic text ends and the interpola- 
tion begins. In addition, the interpolation may 
be the exact contrary of what the author intended. 

This evil is at its worst in piano music. Our 
famous teachers, like Marmontel and Le Coup- 
pey, have published editions of the ckssics which 
are full of their own directions. But the player 
is forewarned ; it is the Marmontel or Le Couppey 
edition and makes no pretence of authenticity* 
In Germany, however, .there are supposedly au- 
thentic editions, hased on the originals, but which 
superimpose their own pernicious inventions on 
the author's text. 

The touch of the piano used to be different 
from what it is to-day. The directions in Mo- 
zart's and Beethoven's works show that they used 

171 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the execution of stringed instruments as their 
model. The touch was lighter and the fingers 
were raised so that the notes were separated 
slightly, and not run together except when indi- 
cated. The supposition is that this must have 
led to a dryness of tone. I remember to have 
heard in my childhood some old people whose 
playing was singularly hopping. Then, there 
came a reaction, and with it a passion for slurring 
the notes. When I was Stamaty's pupil, it was 
considered most difficult to "tie" the notes; that 
required, however, only dexterity and suppleness. 
"When she learns to 'tie/ she will know how 
to play," said the mother of a young pianist. 
Nevertheless, the trick of perpetual legato be- 
comes exceedingly monotonous and takes away 
all character from the pianoforte classics. But 
it is insisted on everywhere in the modern Ger- 
man editions. Throughout there are connec- 
tions seemingly interminable in length, and indi- 
cations of legato, sempre Iegato 9 which the author 
not only did not indicate, but in places where it is 
easy to see that he intended the exact opposite. 
If this is the case, what shall be said of mark* 
172 



ORPHEE 

ing tlie fingering on all the notes which often 
makes good playing impossible. Liszt taught 
hundreds of pupils according to the best princi- 
ples, yet such erroneous principles have pre- 
vailed! 

Disciples of the ivory keys are numerous in 
our day. Everybody wants to have a piano, and 
everybody plays it or thinks he does, which is not 
always the same thing, and few really understand 
what the term "to play the piano," so currently 
used, means. 

The harpsichord reigned supreme before the 
appearance of the piano an instrument which 
is beloved by some and execrated by others. To 
his utter amazement Reyer was considered an 
enemy of the pianoforte. The harpsichord has 
been revived of late so that it is needless to de- 
scribe it. It lacks strength, and that was the 
reason it was dethroned in a period when strength 
was everything. On the other hand, it has dis- 
tinction and elegance. As the player can not 
modify the intensity of the sound by a single pres- 
sure of the finger in which it resembles the or- 
gan like the organ, with its multiple keyboards 

173 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

and registers, the harpsichord has a wide variety 
of effects and affords the opportunity for several 
octaves to sound simultaneously. As a result, 
while music written for the harpsichord gains in 
strength and expression on the modern instru- 
ment, it often assumed a deceptive monotony for 
which the author is not responsible. 

The players of the harpsichord were ignorant 
of muscular effects; there was nothing of the un- 
chained lion about them. The delicate hands of 
a marquise lost none of their gracefulness as they 
skimmed over the keyboards, and the red or black 
keys emphasized their whiteness. 

The introduction of the hammer in the place of 
the tiny nib permitted the modification of the 
quality of sound by differences in the pressure of 
the fingers, and also the production at will of such 
nuances as forte and piano without recourse to 
ihe different registers. This is the reason why 
the new instrument was first called the piano- 
forte. The word was long and cumbersome and 
-was cut in half. When it became necessary to 
assault the note, they used the phrase "to hit the 
forte." The papers which gave accounts of 

174 



PRPHEE 

young Mozart's concerts praised him for his abil- 
ity to "hit/ 9 

Nevertheless one did not hit hard. These 
keyboards with their limited keys responded so 
easily that a child's fingers were sufficient. I 
first played on one of these instruments at the 
age of three. It was made by Zimmerman, 
whose son was Gounod's father-in-law. 

Later, the weight of the keys was increased to 
get a greater volume of sound. Then, when 
long-haired virtuosi, playing by main strength, 
produced peals of thunder, they really "toucha 
du piano." 

To return to Orphee and end as we began, I 
have to make a painful confession. If the works 
of Gluck in general and Orphee in particular 
have had a happy influence on our musical taste, 
a passage from this last work has been a noxious 
influence, the famous chorus of the demons 
"Quel est Faudacieux qui dans ce$ spmbres 
lieux ose porter ses pas? 

In the old days French opera was based on dec- 
lamation and it was scrupulously respected even 

175 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

in the arias. There is a fine example of this ex- 
cellent system in Lully's famous aria from Me- 
dusa to prove what strength results from a close 
relation between the accent of the verse and the 
music. Gluck was one of the most fervent dis- 
ciples of this system, but Orphee, as we know, 
was derived from Orfeo. The question was 
whether he could even think of suppressing this 
spectacular chorus with its amazing strength 
which was one of the principal reasons for the 
work's success. Unfortunately the music of the 
chorus was moulded on the Italian text, and each 
verse ended with the accent on the antepenult, 
which occurs frequently in German and Italian, 
But never in French. And they sing : 



Quel est 
Qui dans ces sombres lieux 
Ose porter ses pas 
Et devant le trepas 
Ne remit pas? 

5s French is not strongly accented sucK faults 
iare tolerated. Gluck's theme impressed itself 
on the memory, so that he dealt a terrific blow 

176 



ORPHEE 

to the purity of prosody. We gradually became 
so disinterested in this that by Auber's time 
scarcely any attention was paid to it. Finally, 
Offenbach appeared. He was a German by birth 
and his musical ideas naturally rhymed with Ger- 
man in direct contradiction to the French words 
to which they applied. This constant bungling 
passed for originality. Sometimes it would have 
been necessary to change the division of a meas- 
ure to get a correct melody, as in the song: 

Un p'tit bonhomme 
Pas plus haut qu'ga. 

In such a case we might say that he did wrong 
for the mere pleasure of going astray. But pop- 
ular taste was so corrupted that no one noticed it 
and everybody who wrote in the lighter vein fell 
into the same habits. 

We owe a debt of gratitude to Andre Messager 
for breaking away from this manner and setting 
musical phraseology aright. His return to the 
old traditions was not the least of the attractions 
of his delightful Veronique., 

177 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

But we are wandering far from Gluck and Or- 
phee, although not so far as we might think. In 
art, as in everything, extremes meet, and there 
are all kinds of tastes. 



178 



CHAPTER XVI 

DELSARTE 

Felix Duquesnal in one of his brilliant articles 
has written something about Delsarte, the singer, 
in connection with his controversy with Madame 
Carvalho. The cause of this controversy was 
the lessons she took from him. The name of 
Delsarte should never be forgotten, as I shall try 
to explain. Madame Carvalho did not refuse to 
pay Delsarte for her lessons, but she did not want 
to be called his pupil. Although she had at- 
tended the Conservatoire, she wanted to be 
known solely as a pupil of Duprez. As a matter 
of fact it was Duprez who knew how to make the 
"Little Miolan," the delightful warbler, into the 
great singer with her important place on the 
French stage. 

But this was accomplished at a price. Ma : 
dame Carvalhd told me about it herself. Her 

179 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

medium register was weak and Duprez undertook 
to substitute chest tones and develop clearness as 
much as possible. "When I began to work," she 
said, "my mother was frightened. One would 
have thought that a calf was being killed in the 
house." 

Ordinarily such a method would produce a 
harsh, shaky voice and all freshness would be 
lost. But in Madame Carvalho's case the op- 
posite was true. The freshness and purity of 
her voice were beyond compare, while its smooth- 
ness and the harmony of the registers were per- 
fect. It was a miracle the like of which we shall 
probably never see again. 

But if Duprez made a wonderful voice at the 
risk of breaking it, I have always thought that 
Madame Carvalho owed her admirable diction, so 
distinguishing a mark of her talent, to Delsarte. 
Delsarte was a disastrous and deadly teacher of 
singing. No voice could stand up under his 
methods, not even his own, although he attrib- 
uted its loss to teaching at the Conservatoire. 
But he studied deeply the arts of speaking and 
gesture, and he was a past master in them. 

180 



DELSARTE 

I once attended a course lie gave in these sub- 
jects. He stated highly illuminating truths and 
gave the psychological reasons for accents and 
the physiological reasons for the gestures. He 
determined the use of gestures in some sort of 
scientific way. Mystic fancies were mixed up in 
these questions. 

It was extremely interesting to see him dissect 
one of Fontaine's fables or a passage from Ra- 
cine, and to hear him explain why the accent 
should be on such a word or on such a syllable 
and not on another, to bring out the sense. Al- 
though this course was so instructive, few took it, 
for Delsarte was almost unknown to people. His 
influence scarcely extended outside a narrow cir- 
cle of admirers, but the quality made up for the 
quantity. This was the circle of the old Debate, 
which was formerly devoted exclusively to Ro- 
manticism, but at this time to the classics the 
set headed by Ingres in painting and Reber in 
music. Theirs was a secluded and ascetic world 
in silent revolt against the abominations of the 
century. One had to hear the tone of devotion 
in which the members of this circle spoke of the 

181 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ancients to appreciate their attitude. Nothing in 
our day can give any idea of them. "They say," 
one of the devotees once told me, "that the an- 
cients learned Beauty through a sort of revela- 
tion, and Beauty has steadily degenerated ever 



since." 



Such false notions were, however, professed by 
the most sincere people who were deeply devoted 
to art. So this group, which had no influence on 
their own contemporaries, nevertheless, without 
knowing it or wishing to do so, played a useful 
role. 

As we know, the public was divided into two 
camps. On one side were the partisans of Mel- . 
ody, opera-comique, the Italians, and, with some 
effort, of grand opera. Opposed to them were 
the partisans of music in the grand style Bee- 
thoven, Mozart, Haydn, and Sebastian Bach, al- 
though he was little known and is less well known 
now. 

No one gave a thought to our old French 
school, to the composers from Lulli to Gluck, who 
produced so many excellent works. Reber 
showed Delsarte the way and the latter, naturally 

182 



DELSARTE 

an antiquarian, threw himself into this unex- 
plored field with surprising vigor. Only Lulli's 
name was known, while Campra, Mondonville 
and the others were entirely forgotten. Even 
Gluck himself had been forgotten. First edi- 
tions of his orchestral scores, which it is impos- 
sible to find to-day, sold for a few francs at the 
second-hand book shops. Rameau was never 
mentioned. 

Delsarte, handsome, eloquent, and fascinat- 
ing, wielded an almost imperial sway over his lit- 
tle coterie of artists. Thanks to him the lamp of 
our old French school was kept dimly burning 
until the day when inherent justice permitted it 
to be revived. In this restricted world no even- 
ing was complete without Delsarte. He would 
come in with some story of frightful throat 
trouble to justify his chronic lack of voice, and, 
then, without any voice at all but by a kind of 
magic, would put shudders into the tones of Or- 
pheus or Eurydice. I often played his accom- 
paniments and he always demanded pianissimo. 

"But/' I would say, "the author has indicated 
forte." 

183 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

"That is true," he would answer, "but in those 
days the harpsichord had little depth of tone." 

It would have heen easy to answer that the ac- 
companiment was written for the orchestra and 
not for the harpsichord. 

Delsarte's execution, on account of the insuffi- 
ciency of his vocal powers, was often entirely dif- 
ferent from what the author intended. Further- 
more, he was absolutely ignorant of the correct 
way to interpret the appogiatures and other 
marks which are not used to-day. As a result his 
interpretation of the older works was inexact. 
But that did not matter, for even if masterpieces 
are presented badly, there is always something 
left. Besides, both the singer and his hearers 
had Faith. He had a way of pronouncing 
"Gluck" which aroused expectation even before 
one heard a note. 

From time to time Delsarte gave a concert* 
He would come on the stage and say that he had 
a bad throat, but that he would try to give Iphige- 
nia's Dream or something of that sort. His 
courage would prove to be greater than his 
strength and he would have to stop. He would 

184 



DELSARTE 

then fall back on old-time songs or La Fontaine's 
fables in which he excelled. A skilfully studied 
mimicry, which seemed entirely natural, under- 
lay his reading. A red handkerchief, which he 
knew how to draw from his pocket at just the 
proper moment, always excited applause. 

One day he conceived the idea of giving one of 
Bossuet's sermons at his concert. Religious 
authority was very powerful at the time and for- 
bade it. Yet there would have been no sacrilege, 
and I regretted keenly that I could not hear this 
magnificent prose delivered so wonderfully. 
Now that religious authority has lost its secular 
support, we see things in an entirely different 
way. Christ, the Virgin, and the Saints walk the 
stage, speak in prose or verse, and sing. It 
would seem that no one is shocked for there is no 
protest. For my own part I must frankly con- 
fess that such pseudo-religious exhibitions are 
disagreeable. They disturb me greatly and I 
can see no use in them. 

In order to foster admiration for the old mas- 
ters, Delsarte conceived the idea of publishing a 

185 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

collection of pieces taken from their works right 
and left, and, as a result, he created his Archives 
du Chant. He had special type made and the 
publication was a marvel of beautiful typogra- 
phy, correctness and good taste. At the begin- 
ning of each part was a cleverly harmonised pas- 
sage of church music. The support of a pub- 
lisher was necessary for the success of such a 
work, but Delsarte was his own publisher and he 
met with no success at all. Similar but inferior 
publications have been markedly successful. 

Delsarte aimed at purity of text, but his suc- 
cessors have been forced to modernize the works 
to make them accessible for the public. This 
fact is painful. In literature the texts are stud- 
ied and the endeavor is to reproduce the writer's 
thought as closely as possible. In music it is 
entirely different. With each new edition a 
professor is commissioned to supervise the work 
and he adds something of his own invention, 

Delsarte, a singer without a voice, an imper- 
fect musician, a doubtful scholar, guided by an 
intuition which approached genius, in spite of his 
numerous faults played an important role in the 

186 



DELSARTE 

evolution of French music in the Nineteenth Cen- 
tury. He was no ordinary man. The impres- 
sion he gave to all who knew him was of a vision- 
ary, an apostle. When one heard him speak 
with his fiery enthusiasm about these works of 
the past which the world had forgotten, one could 
but believe that such oblivion was unjust and de- 
sire to know these relics of another age. 

Without the shadow of a doubt I owed to his 
leadership the necessary courage to make a pro- 
found study of the works of the old school, for 
they are unattractive at first. Berlioz berated 
all this music. He had seen Gluck's works on 
the stage in his youth, but he could see nothing 
in them that was not "superannuated and child- 
ish." With all respect to Berlioz's memory, it 
deserved a kinder judgment than that. When 
one reaches the depths of this music, although it 
may be at the price of some effort, he is well re- 
paid for his pains. There is real feeling, gran- 
deur and even something of the picturesque in 
these works as much as could be with the 
means at their disposal. 

It is only right that we should pay tribute to 
187 



MUSICAL MEMORIES: 

Delsarte's memory. He was a pioneer who, dur- 
ing his whole life, proclaimed the value of im- 
mortal works, which the world despised. That 
is no slight merit. 



188 



CHAPTER XVII 

SEGHERS 

While Delsarte was preparing the way for the 
old French opera and above all for Gluck's works, 
another pioneer of musical evolution was work- 
ing to form the taste of the Parisian public, but 
with an entirely different power and another 
effect. Seghers was the man. He played a 
great role and his memory should be honored. 

As his name indicates, Seghers was a Belgian. 
He started life as a violinist and was one of Bail- 
lot's pupils. His execution was masterly, his 
tone admirable, and he had a musical intelligence 
of the first order. He had every right to a first 
rank among virtuosi, but this man, herculean in 
appearance and tenacious in his purposes, lost all 
his power before an audience. 

He had a dream of giving to lovers of music 
the last of Beethoven's quartets, which were con- 
sidered at the time both unplayable and incom- 

189 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

prehensible. In the end he planned a series of 
concerts at which, despite my age I was only 
fifteen I was to be the regular pianist. He 
planned to give in addition to these quartets, 
some of Bach's sonatas and Reber's and Schu- 
mann's trios. I spoke of this plan to his mother- 
in-law one day as she was peacefully embroider- 
ing at the window, and told her how pleased I 
was at the thought of the concerts. 

"Don't count on it too much," she told me. 
"He'll never give them." 

When everything was ready, he invited some 
thirty people to listen to a trial performance. It 
was wretched. All the depth of tone had gone 
from his violin as well as the skill from his fin- 
gers. . . . The project was abandoned. 

It was left for Maurin to make something out 
of these terrible quartets. Maurin had peculiar 
gifts. He had a lightness of bow which I have 
never seen equalled by anyone and a lightness 
and charm which enchanted the public. But I 
can say in all sincerity that Seghers's execution 
was even better. Unfortunately for him I was 
his only listener. 

190 



SEGHERS 

Madame Seghers was a woman of great beauty, 
unusually intelligent and distinguished. She 
had been one of Liszt's pupils and was a pianist 
of first rank. But she was even more timid than 
her husband a single listener was sufficient to 
paralyze her. When Liszt was teaching Madame 
Seghers, he came to appreciate her husband's 
real worth and entrusted his daughter's musical 
education to him. This is sufficient indication 
of the esteem in which Liszt held Seghers. So it 
was not surprising that he gave me valuable and 
greatly needed suggestions in regard to style and 
the piano itself, for his friendship with Liszt had 
given him a thorough understanding of the in- 
strument. 

I first saw and heard Liszt at Seghers's house. 
He had reappeared in Paris after long years of 
absence, and by that time he had begun to seem 
almost legendary. The story went that since hfc 
had become chapel-master at Weimar he was de- 
voting himself to grand compositions, and, what 
appeared unbelievable, "piano music," People 
who ought to have known that Mozart was the 
greatest pianist of his time shrugged their shoul- 

191 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

ders at this. As a climax it was insinuated that 
Liszt was setting systems of philosophy to music. 
I studied Liszt's works with all the enthusiasm 
of my eighteen years for I already regarded him 
as a genius and attributed to him even before I 
saw him almost superhuman powers as a pianist. 
Remarkable to relate he surpassed the conception 
I had formed. The dreams of my youthful imag- 
ination were but prose in comparison with the 
Bacchic hymn evoked by his supernatural fingers. 
No one who did not hear him at the height of his 
powers can have any idea of his performance. 

Seghers was a member of the Societe des Con- 
certs at the Conservatoire. This reached only a 
restricted public and there was no other sym- 
phony concert worthy of the name in Paris at the 
time. And if the public was limited, the reper- 
toire was even more so. Haydn's, Mozart's and 
Beethoven's symphonies were played almost ex- 
clusively, and Mendelssohn's were introduced 
with the greatest difficulty. Only fragments of 
vast compositions like the oratorios were given. 
An author who was still alive was looked upon 

192 



SEGHERS 

as an intruder. However, the conductor was per- 
mitted to introduce a solo of his own selection. 
Thus my friend Auguste Tolbecque, who was 
over eighty, was permitted to give he still 
played beautifully my first concerto for the vio- 
loncello which I had written for him. Deldevez, 
the conductor of the famous orchestra at the time, 
did not overlook the chance to tell me that he 
had put my concerto on the programme only 
through consideration for Tolbecque. Other- 
wise, he added, he would have preferred Mes- 
sieurs So-and-so's. 

Not only did the Conservatoire audiences know 
little music, but the larger public knew none at 
all. The symphonies of the three great classic 
masters were known to amateurs for the most part 
only through Czerny's arrangement for two pi- 
anos. 

This was the situation when Seghers left the 
Societe des Concerts and founded the Societe St. 
Cecile. He led the orchestra himself. The 
new society took its name from the St. Cecile hall 
which was then in the Rue ide la Chaussee d'An- 
tin. It was a large square hall and was excellent 

193 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

in spite of the prejudice in favor of halls with 
curved lines for music. Curved surfaces, as Ca- 
vaille-Coll, who was an expert in this matter, 
once told me, distort sound as curved mirrors dis- 
tort images. Halls used for music should, there- 
fore, have only straight lines. The St. Cecile 
hall was sufficiently large to allow a complete or- 
chestra and chorus to be placed properly and 
heard as well. 

Seghers managed to assemble an excellent and 
sizable orchestra and he also secured soloists who 
were young then but who have since become 
celebrities. The orchestra was poorly paid and 
also very unruly. I have seen them rebel at the 
difficulties in Beethoven, and it was even worse 
when Seghers undertook to give Schumann who 
was considered the ne plus ultra of modernism. 
Oftentimes there were real riots. But we heard 
there for the first time the overture of Manfred, 
Mendelssohn's Symphony in A minor, and the 
overture to Tannhauser. 

The modern French school found the doors in 
the Rue Bergere closed to them, but they were 
welcomed with open arms at the Chaussee d'An- 

194 



SEGHERS 

tin. 'Among them were Reber, Gounod, and 
Gouvy, and even beginners like Georges Bizet 
and myself. I made my first venture there with 
my Symphony in E flat which I wrote when I 
was seventeen. In order to get the committee to 
adopt it, Seghers offered it as a symphony by an 
unknown author, which had been sent to him 
from Germany. The committees swallowed the 
bait, and the symphony, which would probably 
not had a hearing if my name had been signed, 
was praised to the skies. 

I can still see myself at a rehearsal listening to 
a conversation between Berlioz and Gounod. 
Both of them were greatly interested in me, so 
that they spoke freely and discussed the excel- 
lenctfs and faults of this anonymous symphony. 
They took the work seriously and it can be imag- 
ined how I drank in their words. When the veil 
of mystery was lifted, the interest of the two great 
musicians changed to friendship. I received a 
letter from Gounod, which I have kept carefully, 
and as it does credit to the author, I take the lib- 
erty of reproducing it here: 

195 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

MydearCamille: 

I was officially informed yesterday that you are 
the author of the symphony which they played 
on Sunday. I suspected it; but now that I am 
sure, I want to tell you at once how pleased I 
was with it. You are beyond your years ; always 
keep on and remember that on Sunday, Decem- 
ber 11, 1853, you obligated yourself to become 
a great master. 

Your pleased and devoted friend, 

CH. GOUNOD. 

Many works which had been unknown to 
Parisian audiences were given at these concerts 
and nowhere else. Among them were Schu- 
bert's Symphony in C 9 fragments of Weber's 
opera Preciosa, his Jubel overture, and symphon- 
ies by Gade, Gouvy, Gounod, and Reber. These 
symphonies are not dazzling but they are charm- 
ing. They form an interesting link in the golden 
chain, and the public has a right and even some 
sort of duty to hear them. They would enjoy 
hearing them too, just as at the Louvre they like 
to see certain pictures which are not extraor- 
dinary but which are, nevertheless, worthy of the 

196 



SEGHERS 

pkce they occupy. That is to say, if the public 
is really guided by a love of art and seeks only in- 
tellectual pleasure instead of sensations and 
shocks. Some one has said lately that where 
there is no feeling there is no music. We could, 
however, cite many passages of music which axe 
absolutely lacking in emotion and which are beau- 
tiful nevertheless from the standpoint of pure 
esthetic beauty. But what am I saying ? Paint- 
ing goes its own way and emotion, feeling, and 
passion are evoked by the least landscape. 
Maurice Barres brought in this fashion and he 
could even see passion in rocks. Happy is he 
who can follow him there. 

Among the things we heard at that time and 
which we never hear now I must note especially 
Berlioz's Corsaire and King Lear. His name is 
so much beloved by the present day public that 
this neglect is both unjust and unjustifiable. 
The great man himself came to the Societe St. 
Cecile one day to conduct his UEnjance du 
Christ which he had just written or rather La 
Fuite en Egypt which was the only part of the 
work that was in existence then. He composed 

197 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the rest of it afterwards. I remember perfectly 
the performances which the great man directed. 
They were lively and spirited rather than careful, 
but somewhat slower than what Edouard Colonne 
has accustomed us to. The time was faster and 
the nuances sharper. 

In spite of the enthusiasm of the conductor 
and the skill and talent of the orchestra, the so- 
ciety led a hand-to-mouth existence. The sinews 
of war were lacking. Weckerlin directed the 
choruses and I acted as the accompanist at the 
rehearsals. Love of art sufficed us, but the sing- 
ers and instrumentalists were not satisfied with 
that in tte absence of all emoluments. If 
Seghers had been adaptable, he might have se- 
cured resources, but that was not his forte. 
Meyerbeer wanted him to give his Struensee and 
Halevy wanted a performance of his Promethee. 
But this was contrary to Seghers's convictions, 
and when he had once made up his mind nothing 
could change him. Nevertheless he did give the 
overture to Struensee and it would have been no 
great effort to give the rest. As to PrometHee, 
even if the last part is not in harmony with the 

198 



SEGHERS 

rest of it, the work was well worthy the honor of a 
performance, which the proud society in the Rue 
Bergere had accorded it. By these refusals 
Seghers was deprived of the support of two 
powerful protectors. 

Pasdeloup craftily took advantage of the situa- 
tion. He had plenty of money and, as he knew 
what the financial situation was, he went to the 
rehearsals and corrupted the artists. For the 
most part they were young people in needy cir- 
cumstances and could not refuse his attractive 
propositions. He killed Seghers's society and 
built on its ruins the Societe des Jeunes Artistes, 
which later became the Concerts Populaires. 

Pasdeloup was sincerely fond of music but he 
jvas a very ordinary musician. He had little of 
Seghers's feeling and profound comprehension 
of the art. In Seghers's hands the popular con- 
certs would have become an admirable undertak- 
ing, but Pasdeloup, in spite of his zeal and skill, 
was able to give them only a superficial and de- 
ceptive brilliancy. Besides, Seghers would have 
worked for the development of the French school 
whom Pasdeloup, with but few exceptions, kept 

199 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

under a bushel until 1870. Among tKese ex- 
ceptions were a symphony by Gounod, one by 
Gouvy and the overture to Berlioz's Frances* 
Juges. 

Until the misfortunes and calamities of that 
terrible year the French symphonic school had 
been repressed and stifled between the Societe des 
Concerts and the Concerts Populaires. Perhaps 
they were necessary so that this school might be 
freed and give flight to its fancies. 



200 



CHAPTER XVIII 

ROSSINI 

Nowadays it is difficult to form any idea of 
Rossini's position in our beautiful city of Paris 
half a century ago. He had retired from active 
life a long time before, but he had a greater-repu- 
tation in his idleness than many others in their 
activity. All Paris sought the honor of being ad- 
mitted to Jiis magnificent, high-windowed apart- 
ment. As the demigod never went out in the 
evening, his friends were always sure of finding 
him at home. At one time or another all sorts 
of social sets rubbed elbows at his great soirees. 
The most brilliant singers and the most famous 
virtuosi appeared at these "evenings." The 
master was surrounded by sycophants, but they 
did not influence him, for he knew their true 
worth. He ruled his regular following with the 
hauteur of a superior being who does not deign to 

201 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

reveal himself to the first comer. It is a question 
how he came to be held in such honor. 

His works, outside of the Barbier and Guil- 
laume Tell, and some performances of Moise, be- 
longed to the past. They still went to see Otello 
at the Theatre-Italien, but that was to hear Tam- 
-jb.erlick's C diesis. Rossini was under so little 
illusion that he tried to oppose the effort to have 
Semiramide put into the repertoire at the Opera. 
And, nevertheless, the Parisian public actually 
worshipped him. 

This public I am speaking now of the 
musical public or what is called that was di- 
vided into two hostile camps. There were the 
lovers of melody who were in the large majority 
and included the musical critics; and, on the 
other side, the subscribers to the Conservatoire 
and the Maurin, Alard and Amingaud quartets. 
They were devotees of learned music; "poseurs," 
others said, who pretended to admire works they 
did not understand at all. 

There was no melody in Beethoven; some even 
denied that there was any in Mozart. Melody 
was found, we were told, only in the works of the 

202 



ROSSINI 

Italian school, of which Rossini was the leader, 
and in the school of Herold and Auber, which 
was descended from the Italian* 

The Melodists considered Rossini their standr 
ard bearer, a symbol to rally around, even though 
they had just obtained good prices for his works 
at the second-hand shops and now permitted them 
to fall into oblivion. 

From some words he let fall during our in- 
timacy I can state that this neglect was painful 
to him. But it was a just perhaps too just- 
retribution for the fatality with which Rossini, 
doubtless in spite of himself, served as a weapon 
against Beethoven. The first encounter was at 
Vienna where the success of Tancred crushed 
forever the dramatic ambitions of the author of 
Fidelio; later, at Paris, they used Guillaume Tell 
in combating the increasing invasion of the sym- 
phony and chamber music. 

I was twenty when M. and Mme. Viardot in- 
troduced me to Rossini. He invited me to his 
small evening receptions and received me with 
his usual rather meaningless cordiality. At the 
end of a month, when he found that I asked to be 

203 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

heard neither as a pianist nor as a composer, he 
changed his attitude. "Come and see me to- 
morrow morning,'* he said. "We can talk 
then." 

I was quick to respond to this flattering invi- 
tation and I found a very different Rossini from 
the one of the evening. He was intensely in- 
terested in and open-minded to ideas, which, if 
they were not advanced, were at least broad and 
noble. He gave proof of this when Liszt's fa- 
mous Messe was performed for the first time at 
St. Eustache. He went to its defense in the face 
of an almost unanimous opposition. 

He said to me one day, 

"You have written a duet for a flute and 
clarinet for Dorus and Leroy. Won't you ask 
them to play it at one of my evenings?" 

The two great artists did not have to be urged. 
Then an unheard of thing happened. As he 
never had a written programme on such occa- 
sions, Rossini managed so that they believed that 
the duet was his ewn. It is easy to imagine the 
success of the piece under these conditions. 
When the encore was over, Rossini took me tq 

204 



ROSSINI 

the dining-room and made me sit near him, hold- 
ing me by the hand so that I could not get away. 
A procession of fawning admirers passed in front 
of him. Ah! Master! What a masterpiece! 
Marvellous! 

And when the victim had exhausted the re- 
sources of the language in praise, Rossini replied, 
quietly: 

"I agree with you. But the duet wasn't mine ; 
it was written by this gentleman." 

Such kindness combined with such ingenuity 
tells more about the great man than many vol- 
umes of commentaries. For Rossini was a great 
man. The young people of to-day are in no po- 
sition to judge his works, which were written, as 
he said himself, for singers and a public who no 
longer exist. 

"I am criticised," he said one day, "for the 
great crescendo in my works. But if I hadn't put 
the crescendo into my works, they would never 
have been played at the Opera." 

In our day the public are slaves. I have read 
in the programme of one house, "All marks of 
approbation will be severely repressed." For- 

205 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

merly, especially in Italy, the public was master 
and its taste law. As it came before the lights 
were up, a great overture with a crescendo was 
as necessary as cavatinas, duets and ensembles: 
they came to hear the singers and not to be pres- 
ent at an opera. In many of his works, espe- 
cially in Otello, Rossini made a great step for- 
ward towards realism in opera. In Moise and 
Le Siege de Corinthe (not to mention Guillaume 
Telf) he rose to heights which have not been sur- 
passed in spite of the poverty of the means at his 
disposal. As Victor Hugo has victoriously 
demonstrated, such poverty is no obstacle to 
genius and wealth in them is only an advantage to 
mediocrity, 

I was one of the regular pianists at Rossini's. 
The others were Stanzieri, a charming young man 
of whom Rossini was very fond and who lived 
but a short time, and Diemer, who was also young 
l>ut already a great artist. One or the other of 
us would often play at the evening entertain- 
ments the slight pieces for the piano which the 
Master used to write to take up his time. I was 
only too willing to accompany the singers, when 

206 



ROSSINI 

Rossini did not do so himself. He accompanied 
them admirably for he played the piano to per- 
fection. 

Unfortunately I was not there the evening that 
Patti sang for Rossini the first time. We know 
that after she had sung the aria from Le Barbier, 
he said to her, after the usual compliments, 

"Who wrote that aria you just sang?" 

I saw him three days afterwards and he hadn't 
cooled off even then. 

"I am fully aware/' he said, "that arias should 
be embellished. That's what they are for. 
But not to leave a note of them even in the reci- 
tatives ! That is too much ! " 

In his irritation he complained that the so- 
pranos persisted in singing this aria which was 
written for a contralto and did not sing what had 
been written for the sopranos at all. 

On the other hand the diva was irritated as 
well. She thought the matter over and realized 
that it would be serious to have Rossini for an 
enemy. So some days later she went to ask his 
advice. It was well for her that she took it, for 
her talent, though brilliant and fascinating, was 

207 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

9- 

not as yet fully formed. Two months after this 
incident, Patti sang the arias from La Gaza Ladra 
and Semiramide, with the master as her accom- 
panist. And she combined with her brilliancy 
the absolute correctness which she always showed 
afterwards. 

Much has been written about the premature 
interruption of Rossini's career after the appear- 
ance of Guillaume Tell. It has been compared 
with Racine's life after Phedre. The failure of 
Phedre was brutal and cruel, which was added 
to by the scandalous success of the Phedre of an 
unworthy rival. Racine's friends, the Port Roy- 
alists, did not hesitate to make the most of the 
opportunity. "You've lost your soul," they told 
him. "And now you haven't even success." 
But later, when he took up his pen again, he 
gave us two masterpieces in Esther and Athalie. 

Rossini was accustomed to success and it was 
hard for him to run into a half-hearted success 
when he knew he had surpassed himseH . This 
was doubtless due to the extravagant phraseology 
of Hippolyte Bis, one of the librettists. But 
Guillaume Tell had its admirers from the start. 

208 



ROSSINI 

I heard it spoken of constantly in my childhood. 
If the work did not appear on the bills of the 
Opera, it furnished the amateurs with choice bits. 

In my opinion, if Rossini committed suicide as 
far as his art was concerned, he did so because he 
had nothing more to say. Rossini was a spoiled 
child of success and he could not live without it. 
Such unexpected hostility put an end to a stream 
which had flowed so abundantly for so long. 

The success of his Soirees Musicales and his 
Stabat encouraged him. But he wrote nothing 
more except those slight compositions for the 
piano and for singing which may be compared to 
the last vibrations of a sound, as it dies away. 

Later much later came La Messe to which 
undue importance has been attributed. "Le 
Passus" one critic wrote, "is the cry of a stricken 
spirit." La Messe is written with elegance by 
an assured and expert hand, but that is all. 
There are no traces of the pen which wrote the 
second act of Guillaume Tell. 

Apropos of this second act, it is not, perhaps, 
generally known that the author had no idea of 
ending it with a prayer. Insurrections are not 

209 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

usually begun with so serious a song. But at the 
rehearsals the effect of the unison. Si parmi nous 
il est des Traitres, was so great that they did not 
dare to go on beyond it. So they suppressed the 
real ending, which is now the brilliant entrancing 
end of the overture. This finale is extant in the 
library at the Opera. It would be an interesting 
experiment to restore it and give this beautiful 
act its natural conclusion. 



1210 



CHAPTER XDC 

JULES MASSENET 

Massenet has been praised indiscriminately 
sometimes for his numerous and brilliant pow- 
ers and sometimes for merits he did not have at 
all. 

I have waited to speak of him until the time 
when the Academic was ready to replace him, 
that is to say, put some one in his place, for 
great artists are never replaced. Others succeed 
them with their own individual and different 
powers, but they do not take their places never- 
theless. Malibran has never been replaced, nor 
Madame Viardot, Madame Carvalho, Talma and 
Rachel. No one can ever replace Patti, Bartet 
or Sarah Bernhardt. They could not replace 
Ingres, Delacroix, Berlioz, or Gounod, and they 
can never replace Massenet. 

It is a question whether he has been accorded 
211 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Ids real place. Perhaps his pupils have esti- 
mated him at his true worth, but they were grate- 
ful for his excellent teaching, and may be rightly 
suspected of partiality. Others have spoken 
slightingly of his works and they have applied to 
him by transposing the words of the celebrated 
dictum: Saltavit et placuit. He sang and 
wept, so they sought to deprecate him as if there 
were something reprehensible in an artist's pleas- 
ing the public. This notion might seem to have 
some basis in view of the taste that is affected to- 
day a predilection for all that is shocking and 
displeasing in all the arts, including poetry. 
Sorcieres's epigram the ugly is Beautiful and 
the., beautiful ugly has become a programme* 
People are no longer content with merely admir- 
ing atrocities, they even speak with contempt of 
beauties hallowed by time and the admiration of 
centuries. 

TEelact remains that Massenet is one of the 
most brilliant diamonds in our musical crown. 
No musician has enjoyed so much favor with the 
public save Auber, whom Massenet did not care 
for any more than he did for his school, but whom 

212 



JULES MASSENET 

lie resembled closely. They were alike in their 
facility, their amazing fertility, genius, graceful- 
ness, and success. Both composed music which 
was agreeable to their contemporaries. Both 
were accused of pandering to their audiences. 
The answer to this is that both their audiences 
and the artists had the same tastes and so were in 
perfect accord. 

To-day ;jhe^ r^lutionists^ are the only ones 
held in esteem ^by jhe critics. Well, it may be a 
fine thing to despise the mob, to struggle against 
the current, and to compel the mob by force of 
genius and energy to follow one despite their 
resistance. Yet one may be a great artist with- 
out doing that. 

There was nothing revolutionary about Se- 
bastian Bach with his two hundred and fifty can- 
tatas, which were performed as fast as they were 
written and which were constantly in demand for 
important occasions. Handel managed the the- 
ater where his operas were produced and his 
oratorios were sung, and they would have in- 
dubitably failed, if he had gone against the ac- 
customed taste of his audiences. Haydn wrote 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

to supply the music for Prince Esterhazy's 
chapel; Mozart was forced to write constantly, 
and Rossini worked for an intolerant public 
which would not have allowed one of his operas 
to be played, if the overture did not contain the 
great crescendo for which he has been so re- 
proached. These were none of them revolution- 
ists, yet they were great musicians. 

Another criticism is made against Massenet. 
He was superficial, they say, and lacked depth. 
Depth, as we know, is very much the fashion. 

It is true that Massenet was not profound, but 
that is of little consequence. Just as there are 
many mansions in our Father's house, so there 
are many in Apollo's. Art is vast. The artist 
has a perfect right to descend to the nethermost 
depths and to enter into the inner secrets of the 
soul, but this right is not a duty. 

The artists of Ancient Greece, with all their 
marvellous works, were not profound. Their 
marble goddesses were beautiful, and beauty was 
sufficient. 

Our old-time sculptors Clodion and Coyse- 
vox -were not profound; nor were Fragonard, 

214 



JULES MASSENET 

La Tour, nor Marivaux, yet they brought honor 
to the French school. 

All have their value and all are necessary. 
The rose with its fresh color and its perfume, is, 
in its way, as precious as the sturdy oak. Art 
has a place for artists of all kinds, and no one 
should flatter himself that he is the only one who 
is capable of covering the entire field of art. 

Some, even in treating a familiar subject, 
have as much dignity as a Roman emperor on his 
golden throne, but Massenet did not belong to 
this type. He had charm, attraction and a pas- 
sionateness that was feverish rather than deep. 
His melody was wavering and uncertain, often- 
times more a recitative than melody properly so 
called, and it was entirely his own. It lacks 
structure and style. Yet how can one resist 
when he hears Manon at the feet of Des Grieux in 
the sacristy of Saint-Sulpice, or help being stirred 
to the depths by such outpourings of love ? One 
cannot reflect or analyze when moved in this way. 

After emotional art comes decadent art. But 
that is of little consequence. Decadence in art 
is often far from being artistic deterioration. 

215 



MUSICAE MEMORIES 

Massenet's music has one great attraction for 
me and one that is rare in these days it is gay. 
And gaiety is frowned upon in modern music. 
They criticise Haydn and Mozart for their gaiety, 
and turn away their faces in shame before the 
exuberant joyousness with which the Ninth 
Symphony comes to its triumphal close. Long 
live gloom. Hurrah for boredom! So say our 
young people. They may live to regret, too late, 
the lost hours which they might have spent in 
gaiety. 

Massenet's facility was something prodigious. 
I have seen him sick in bed, in a most uncom- 
fortable position, and still turning off pages of 
orchestration, which followed one another with 
disconcerting speed. Too often such facility en- 
genders laziness, but in his case we know what 
an enormous amount of work he accomplished. 
He has been criticised as being too prolific. 
However, that is a quality which belongs only to 
a master. The artist who produces little may, if 
he has ability, be an interesting artist, but he 
will never be a great one. 

In this time of anarchy in art, when all he had 
216 




V 




XJ 





M. Jules Massenet 



JULES MASSENET 

to dp to conciliate the hostile critics was to ar- 
ray himself with the fauves, Massenet set an ex- 
ample of impeccable writing. He knew how to 
combine modernism with respect for tradition, 
and he did this at a time when all he had to do 
was to trample tradition under foot and be pro- 
claimed a genius. Master of his trade as few 
have ever been, alive to all its difficulties, pos- 
sessing the most subtle secrets of its technique, 
he despised the contortions and exaggerations 
which simple minds confound with the science of 
music. He followed out the course he had set 
for himself without any concern for what they 
might say about him. He was able to adopt 
within reason the novelties from abroad and he 
was clever in assimilating them perfectly, yet he 
presented the spectacle of a thoroughly French 
artist whom neither the Lorelei of the Rhine nor 
the sirens of the Mediterranean could lead astray. 
He was a virtuoso of the orchestra, yet he never 
sacrificed the voices for the instruments, nor did 
he sacrifice orchestral color for the voices. 
Finally, he had the greatest gift of all, that of 
life, a gift which cannot be defined, but which 

217 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the public always recognizes and which assures 
the success of works far inferior to his. 

Much has been said about the friendship be- 
tween us SL notion based solely on the demon- 
strations he showered on me in public and in 
public alone. He might have had my friend- 
ship, if he had wanted it, and it would have been 
a devoted friendship, but he did not want it. 
He told what I never told how I got one of 
his works presented at Weimar, where Samson 
had just been given. What he did not tell was 
the icy reception he gave me when I brought the 
news and when I expected an entirely different 
sort of a reception. From that day on I never 
intervened again, and I was content to rejoice in 
his success without expecting any reciprocity on 
his part, which I knew to be impossible after a 
confession he made to me one day. My friends 
and companions in arms were Bizet, Guiraud and 
Delibes ; Massenet was a rival. His high opinion 
of me, therefore, was the more valuable when he 
did me the honor of recommending his pupils to 
study my works. I have brought up this ques- 
tion only to make clear that when I proclaim his 

218 



JULES MASSENET 

great musical importance, I am guided solely by 
my artistic conscience and that my sincerity can- 
not be suspected. One word more. Massenet 
had many imitators; he never imitated anyone. 



219 



CHAPTER XX 

MEYERBEER 



Who would have predicted that the day would 
come when it would be necessary to come to the 
defense of the author of Les Huguenots and Le 
Prophete, of the man who at one time dominated 
every stage in Europe by a leadership which was 
so extraordinary that it looked as though it would 
never end? I could cite many works in which 
all the composers of the past are praised without 
qualification, and Meyerbeer, alone, is accused of 
numerous faults. However, others have faults, 
too, and, as I have said elsewhere, but it will stand 
repeating, it is not the absence of defects but the 
presence of merits which makes works and men 
great. It is not always well to be without blem- 
ish. A too regular face or too pure a voice lacks 
expression. If there is no such thing as perfec- 

220 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

tion in this world, it is doubtless because it is not 
needed. 

As I do not belong to that biased school which 
pretends to see Peter entirely white and Paul ut- 
terly black, I do not try to make myself think 
that the author of Les Huguenots had no faults. 

The most serious, but the most excusable, is 
his contempt for prosody and his indifference to 
the verse entrusted to him. This fault is ex- 
cusable for the French school of the time, heed- 
less of tradition, set him a bad example. Ros- 
sini was, like Meyerbeer, a foreigner, but he was 
not affected in the same way. He even got fine 
effects through the combination of musical and 
textual rhythm. An instance of this is seen in 
the famous phrase in Guillaume Tell: 

Ces jours qu'ils ont ose proscrire, 
Je ne les ai pas def endus. 
Mon pere, tu m'as du maudire! 

If Rossini had not retired at an age when 
others are just beginning their careers and had 
given us two or three more works, his illustriqus 
example would have restored the old principles 

221 



MEYERBEER 

on which French opera had been constructed from 
the time of Lulli. On the contrary, Auber car- 
ried \vith him an entire generation captivated by 
Italian music. He even went so far as to put 
French words into Italian rhythm. The famous 
duet Amour sacre de la Patrie is versified as if 
the text were Amore sacro della patria. This is 
seen only in reading it, for it is never sung as it 
is written. 

Meyerbeer was, then, excusable to a certain ex- 
tent, but he abused all indulgence in such mat- 
ters. In order to preserve intact his musical 
forms even in recitatives, which are, as a mat- 
ter of fact, only declamation set to music he ac- 
cented the weak syllables and vice versa; he 
added words and made unnecessarily false verse, 
and transformed bad verse into worse prose. 
He might have avoided all these literary abom- 
inations without any harm to the effect by a slight 
modification of the music. The verses given to 
musicians were often very bad, for that was the 
fashion. The versifier thought he had done his 
duty by his collaborator by giving him verses like 
this; 

222 



MEYERBEER 

Triomphe que j 'aime! 
Ta f rayeur extreme 
Va malgre toi-meme 
Te livrer a moi! 

But when Scribe abandoned his reed-pipes ancj 
essayed the lyre, he gave Meyerbeer this, 

J'ai voulu les punir . . .Tu les as surpasses! 

And Meyerbeer made it, 
J'ai voulu les punir . . . Et tu les as surpasses! 

which was hardly encouraging. 

Meyerbeer had other manias as well. Per- 
haps the most notable was to give to the voice 
musical schemes which belong by rights to the 
instruments. So in the first act of Le Prophete, 
after the chorus sings, Veille swr nous, instead 
of stopping to breathe and prepare for the fol- 
lowing phrase, he makes it repeat abruptly, Sur 
nous! Sur nous! in unison with the orchestral 
notes which are, to say the least, a ritornello. 

Again, in the great cathedral scene, instead of 
letting the orchestra bring out through the voices 

223 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

the musical expression of Fides sobs: Et toi, 
tu ne me connais pas 9 he puts both the instru- 
ments and the voices in the same time and on 
words which do not harmonize with the music at 
'all. 

I need not speak of his immoderate love for 
the bassoon, an admirable instrument, but one 
which it is hardly prudent to abuse. 

But so far we have spoken only of trifles. 
Meyerbeer's music, as a witty woman once re- 
marked to me, is like stage scenery it should 
not be scrutinized too closely. It would be hard 
to find a better characterization. Meyerbeer be- 
longed to the theater and sought above every- 
thing else theatrical effects. But that does not 
mean that he was indifferent to details. He was 
a wealthy man and he used to indemnify the 
theaters for the extra expense he occasioned 
them. He multiplied rehearsals by trying differ- 
ent versions with the orchestra so as to choose 
between them. He did not cast his work in 
bronze, as so many do, and present it to the pub- 
lic ne varietur. He was continually feeling his 
way, recasting, and seeking the better which very 

224 



MEYERBEER 

often was the enemy of good. As the result of 
his continual researches he too frequently turned 
good ideas into inferior ones. Note for example, 
in UEtoile du Nord, the passage, Enfants de 
rUkraine fls du desert. The opening passage 
is lofty, determined and picturesque, but it ends 
most disagreeably. 

He always lived alone with no fixed place of 
abode. He was at Spa in the summer and on 
the Mediterranean in the winter; in large cities 
only as business drew him. He had no finan- 
cial worries and he lived only to continue his 
Penelope-like work, which showed a great love 
of perfection, although he did not find the best 
way of attaining it. They have tried to place 
this conscientious artist in the list of seekers of 
success, but such men are not ordinarily accus- 
tomed to work like this. 

Since I have used the word artist, it is proper 
to stop for a moment. Unlike Gluck and Ber- 
lioz, who were greater artists than musicians, 
Meyerbeer was more a musician than an artist. 
As a result, he often used the most refined and 
learned means to achieve a very ordinary artistic 

225 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

result. But there is no reason why he should 
be brought to task for results which they do not 
even remark in the works of so many others. 

Meyerbeer was the undisputed leader in the 
operatic world when Robert Schumann struck 
the first blow at his supremacy. Schumann was 
ignorant of the stage, although he had made one 
unfortunate venture there. He did not appre- 
ciate that there is more than one way to practise 
the art of music. But he attacked Meyerbeer, 
violently, for his bad taste and Italian tendencies, 
entirely forgetting that when Mozart, Beethoven, 
and Weber did work for the stage they were 
strongly drawn towards Italian art. Later, the 
Wagnerians wanted to oust Meyerbeer from the 
stage and make a place for themselves, and they 
got credit for some of Schumann's harsh criti- 
cisms, this, too, despite the fact that at the be- 
ginning of the skirmish Schumann and the Wag- 
nerians got along about as well as Ingres and 
Delacroix and their schools. But they united 
against the common enemy and the French critics 
followed. The critics entirely neglected Ber- 
lioz's opinion, for, after opposing Meyerbeer for 

226 



MEYERBEER 

a long time, he admitted him among the gods 
and in his Traite d 9 Instrumentation awarded him 
the crown of immortality. 

Parenthetically, if there is a surprising page 
in the history of music it is the persistent affecta- 
tion of classing Berlioz and Wagner together. 
They had nothing in common save their great 
love of art and their distrust of established forms. 
Berlioz abhorred enharmonic modulations, dis- 
sonances resolved indefinitely one after another, 
continuous melody and all current practices of 
futuristic music. He carried this so far that he 
claimed that he understood nothing in the 
prelude to Tristan, which was certainly a sincere 
claim since, almost simultaneously, he hailed the 
overture of Lohengrin, which is conceived in an 
entirely different manner, as a masterpiece. He 
did not admit that the voice should be sacrificed 
and relegated to the rank of a simple unit of the 
orchestra. Wagner, for his part, showed at his 
best an elegance and artistry of pen which may 
be searched for in vain in Berlioz's work. Ber- 
lioz opened to the orchestra the doors of a new 
world. Wagner hurled himself into this un- 

227 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

known country and found numerous lands to till 
there. But what dissimilarities there are in the 
styles of the two men! In their methods of 
treating the orchestra and the voices, in their 
musical architectonics, and in their conception 
of opera! 

In spite of the great worth of Les Troyens and 
Benvenuto Cellini, Berlioz shone brightest in the 
concert hall; Wagner is primarily a man of the 
theater. Berlioz showed clearly in Les Troyens 
his intention of approaching Cluck, while Wag- 
ner freely avowed his indebtedness to Weber, 
and particularly to the score of Euryanthe. He 
might have added that he owed something to 
Marschner, but he never spoke of that. 

The more we study the works of these two men 
of genius, the more we are impressed by the 
tremendous difference between them. Their re- 
semblance is simply one of those imaginary 
things which the critics too often mistake for a re- 
ality. The critics once found local color in Ros- 
sini's Semiramide! 

Hans de Biilow once said to me in the course of 
a conversation, 

228 



MEYERBEER 

"After all Meyerbeer was a man of genius." 

If we fail to recognize Meyerbeer's genius, we 
are not only unjust but also ungrateful. In 
every sense, in his conception of opera, in his 
treatment of orchestration, in his handling of 
choruses, even in stage setting, he gave us new 
principles by which our modern works have 
profited to a large extent. 

Theophile Gautier was no musician, but he had 
a fine taste in music and he judged Meyerbeer as 
follows; 

"In addition to eminent musical talents, Mey- 
erbeer had a highly developed instinct for the 
stage. He goes to the heart of a situation, fol- 
lows closely the meanings of the words, and ob- 
serves both the historical and local color of his 
subject. . . . Few composers have understood 
opera so well." 

The success of the Italian school appeared to 
have utterly ruined this understanding and care 
for local and historical color. Rossini in the kst 
act of Otello and in Guillaume Tell began its 
rennaissance with a boldness for which he de- 

229 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

serves credit, but it was left to Meyerbeer to re- 
store it to its former glory. 

It is impossible to deny his individuality. 
The amalgamation of his Germanic tendencies 
with his Italian education and his French prefer- 
ences formed an ore of new brilliancy and new 
depth of tone. His style resembled none other. 
Fetis, his great admirer and friend and the fa- 
mous director of the Conservatoire at Brussels, 
insisted, and with reason, on this distinction. 
His style was characterized by the importance of 
the rhythmic element. His ballet music owes 
much of its excellence to the picturesque variety 
of the rhythms. 

Instead of the long involved overture he gave 
us the short distinctive prelude which has been 
so successful. The preludes of Robert and Les 
Huguenots were followed by the preludes of 
Lohengrin, Faust, Tristan, Romeo, La Traviata, 
A'ida, and many others which are less famous. 
Verdi in his last two works and Richard Strauss 
in Salome went even farther and suppressed the 
prelude a none too agreeable surprise. It is 
like a dinner without soup. 

'230 



MEYERBEER 

Meyerbeer gave us a foretaste of the famous 
leit-motif. We find it in Robert in the theme of 
the ballad, which the orchestra plays again while 
Bertram goes towards the back of the stage. 
This should indicate to the listener his satanic 
character. We find it in the Luther chant in Les 
Huguenots and also in the dream of Le Prophete 
during Jean's recitative. Here the orchestra 
with its modulated tone predicts the future splen- 
dor of the cathedral scene, while a lute plays low 
notes, embellished by a delicate weaving in of 
the violins, and produces a remarkable and un- 
precedented effect. He introduced on the stage 
the ensembles of wind instruments (I do not 
mean the brass) which are so frequent in Mo- 
zart's great concertos. An illustration of this is 
the entrance of Alice in the second act of Robert. 
An echo of this is found in Elsa's entrance in the 
second act of Lohengrin. Another illustration 
is the entrance of Berthe and Fides in the be- 
ginning of the Le Prophete. In this case the 
author indicated a pantomime. This is never 
played and so this pretty bit loses all its signifi- 
cance. 

231 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Meyerbeer ventured to use combinations in 
harmony which were considered rash at that 
time. They pretend that the sensitiveness of 
the ear has been developed since then, but in 
reality it has been dulled by having to undergo 
the most violent discords. 

The beautiful "progression" of the exorcism 
in the fourth act of Le Prophete was not accepted 
without some difficulty. I can still see Gounod 
seated at a piano singing the debated passage and 
trying to convince a group of recalcitrant listen- 
ers of its beauty. 

Meyerbeer developed the role of the English 
horn, which up to that time had been used only 
rarely and timidly, and he also introduced the 
bass clarinet into the orchestra. But the two 
instruments, as he used them, still appeared 
somewhat unusual. They were objects of luxury, 
strangers of distinction which one saluted re- 
spectfully and which played no great part. Un- 
der Wagner's management they became a definite 
part of the household and, as we know, brought 
in a wealth of coloring. 

It is an open question whether it was Meyer- 
232 



MEYERBEER 

beer or Scribe who planned the amazing stage 
setting in the cathedral scene in Le Prophete. 
It must have been Meyerbeer, for Scribe was not 
temperamentally a revolutionist, and this scene 
was really revolutionary. The brilliant ptoces- 
sion with its crowd of performers which goes 
across the stage through the nave into the choir, 
constantly keeping its distance from the audi- 
ence, is an impressive, realistic and beautiful 
scene. But directors who go to great expense 
for the costumes cannot understand why the pro- 
cession should file anywhere except before the 
footlights as near the audience as possible, and it 
is extremely difficult to get any other method of 
procedure. 

Furthermore, the amusing idea of the skating 
ballet was due to Meyerbeer. At the time there 
was an amusing fellow in Paris who had invented 
roller skates and who used to practise his favorite 
sport on fine evenings on the large concrete sur- 
faces of the Place de la Concorde. Meyerbeer 
saw him and got the idea of the famous ballet. 
In the early days of the opera it certainly was 
charming to see the skaters come on accompanied 

233 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

by a pretty chorus and a rhythm from the violins 
regulated by that of the dancers. But the per- 
formance began at seven and ended at midnight. 
Now they begin at eight and to gain the hour they 
had to accelerate the pace. So the chorus in 
question was sacrificed. That was bad for Les 
Huguenots. The author tried to make a good 
deal out of the last act with its beautiful choruses 
in the church a development of the Luther 
chant and the terror of the approaching massa- 
cre. But this act has been cut, mutilated and 
made generally unrecognizable. They even go 
so far in some of the foreign houses as to sup- 
press it entirely. 

I once saw the last act in all its integrity and 
with six harps accompanying the famous trio. 
We shall never see the six harps again, for 
Garnier, instead of reproducing exactly the 
placing of the orchestra in the old Opera, man- 
aged so well in the new one that they are unable 
to put in the six harps of old or the four drums 
with which Meyerbeer got such surprising effects 
in Robert and Le Prophete. I believe, however, 
that recent improvements have averted this dis- 

234 



MEYERBEER 

aster in a certain measure, and that there is now 
a place for the drums. But we shall never hear 
the six harps again. 

We must say something of the genesis of Mey- 
erbeer's works, for in many instances this was 
curious and few people know about it. 

II 

We might like to see works spring from the 
author's brain as complete as Minerva was when 
she sprang from Jove's, but that is infrequently 
the case. When we study the long series of 
operas which Gluck wrote, we are surprised to 
meet some things which we recognize as having 
seen before in the masterpieces which immortal- 
ize his name. And often the music is adapted 
to entirely different situations in the changed 
form. The words of a follower become the awe- 
some prophecy of a high priest. The trio in 
Orphee with its tender love and expressions of 
perfect happiness fairly trembles with accents of 
sorrow. The music had been written for an 
entirely different situation which justified them. 

235 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Massenet has told us that he borrowed right and 
left from his unpublished score, La Coupe du 
Roi de Thule. That is what Gluck did with his 
Elena e Paride which had little success. I may 
as well confess that one of the ballets in Henry 
VIII came from the finale of an opera-comique in 
one act. This work was finished and ready to 
go to rehearsal when the whole thing was stopped 
because I had the audacity to assert to Nestor 
Roqueplan, the director of Favart Hall, that Mo- 
zart's Le Nozze di Figaro was a masterpiece, 

Meyerbeer, even more than anyone, tried not 
to lose his ideas and the study of their trans- 
formation is extremely interesting. One day 
Nuitter, the archivist at the Opera, learned of an 
important sale of manuscripts in Berlin. He at- 
tended the sale and brought back a lot of Meyer- 
beer's rough drafts which included studies for a 
Faust that the author never finished. These 
fragments give no idea what the piece would 
have been. We see Faust and Mephistopheles 
walking in Hell. They come to the Tree of Hu- 
man Knowledge on the banks of the Styx and 
Faust picks the fruit. From this detail it is 

236 



MEYERBEER 

easy to imagine that the libretto is bizarre. The 
authorship of this amazing libretto is unknown, 
but it is not strange that Meyerbeer soon aban- 
doned it. From this still-born Faust, Scribe, at 
the request of the author, constructed Robert le 
Diable. An aria sung by Faust on the banks of 
the Styx becomes the Valse Infernale. 

The necessity of utilizing pre-existing frag- 
ments explains some of the incoherence of this 
incomprehensible piece. It also explains the 
creation of Bertram, half man, half devil, who 
was invented as a substitute for Mephistopheles. 
The fruit of the Tree of Human Knowledge be- 
came the Rameau Veneree in the third act, and 
the beautiful religious scene in the fifth act, 
which has no relation to the action, is a transpo- 
sition of the Easter scene. 

So Scribe should not be blamed for making a 
poor piece when he had so many difficulties to 
contend with. He must have lost his head a lit- 
tle for Robert's mother was called Berthe in the 
first act and Rosalie in the third. However, the 
answer might be that she changed her name 
when she became religious. 

237 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Later, Scribe was put to another no less diffi- 
cult test with UEtoile du Nord. When Meyer- 
beer was the conductor at the Berlin Opera, he 
wrote on command Le Camp de Silesie with Fred- 
erick the Great as the hero and Jenny lind as the 
musical star. As we know, Frederick was a mu- 
sician, for he both composed music and played 
the flute, while Jenny Lind, the Swedish nightin- 
gale, was a great singer. A contest between the 
nightingale and the flute was sure to follow or 
theatrical instinct is a vain phrase. But in the 
piece Scribe created, Peter the Great took Fred- 
erick the Great's place and to give a motive for 
the grace notes in the last act it was necessary 
for the terrible Tsar, a half savage barbarian, to 
learn to play the flute. 

It is not worth while telling how the Tsar 
took lessons on the flute from a young pastry 
cook who came on the stage with a basket of 
cakes on his head; how the cook later became a 
lord, and many other details of this absurd pky. 
It is permitted to be absurd on the stage, if it is 
done so that the absurdity is forgotten. But in 
this instance it was impossible to forget the ab- 

238 



MEYERBEER 

surdities. The extravagance of the libretto led 
the musician into many unfortunate things. 
This extremely interesting score is very uneven, 
but there are a thousand details worth the atten- 
tion of the professional musician. Beauty even 
appears in the score at moments, and there are 
charming and picturesque bits, as well as pueril- 
ities and shocking vulgarities. 

Public curiosity was aroused for a long time 
by clever advance notices and had reached a high 
pitch when UEtoile du Nord appeared. The 
work was carried by the exceptional talents of 
Bataille and Caroline Duprez and was enor- 
mously successful at the start, but this success 
has grown steadily less. Faure and Madame 
Patti gave some fine performances in London. 
We shall probably never see their equal again, 
and it is not desirable that we should either from 
the standpoint of art or of the author. 

Les Huguenots was not an opera pieced to- 
gether out of others, but it did not reach the pub- 
lic as the author wrote it. At the beginning of 
the first act there was a game of cup and ball on 
which the author had set his heart. But the 

239 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

balls had to strike at the exact moment indicated 
in the score and the players never succeeded in 
accomplishing that. The passage had to be sup- 
pressed but it is preserved in the library at the 
Opera. They also had to suppress the part of 
Catherine de Medici who should preside at the 
conference where the massacre of St. Bartholo- 
mew was planned. Her part was merged with! 
that of St. Pris. They also suppressed the first 
scene in the last act, where Raoul, disheveled and 
covered with blood, interrupted the ball and up- 
set the merriment by announcing the massacre 
to the astonished dancers. 

But it is a question whether we should believe 
the legend that the great duet, the climax of the 
whole work, was improvised during the re- 
hearsals at the request of Norritt and Madame 
Falcon. It is hard to believe that. The work, 
as is well known, was taken from Merimee's 
Chronique du regne de Charles IX. This scene 
is in the romance and it is almost impossible that 
Meyerbeer had no idea of putting it into his 
opera. More probably the people at the theatre 
wanted the act to end with the blessing of the 

240 



daggers, and the author with his duet in his port- 
folio only had to take it out to satisfy his inter- 
preters. A beautiful scene like this with its 
sweep and pleasing innovation is not written 
hastily. This duet should be heard when the 
author's intentions and the nuances which make 
a part of the idea are respected and not replaced 
by inventions in bad taste which they dare to call 
traditions. The real traditions have been lost 
and this admirable scene has lost its beauty. 

The manner in which the duet ends has not 
been noted sufficiently. Raoul's phrase, God 
guard our days. God of our refuge! remains in 
suspense and the orchestra brings it to an end, 
the first example of a practice used frequently in 
modern works. 

We do not know how Meyerbeer got his idea of 
putting the schismatic John Huss on the stage 
under the name of John of Leyden. Whether 
this idea was original with him or was suggested 
by Scribe, who made a fantastic person out of 
John, we do not know. We only know that the 
role of the prophet's mother was originally in- 
tended for Madame Stoltz, but she had left the 

241 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Opera. Meyerbeer heard Madame Pauline Vi- 
ardot at Vienna and found in her his ideal, so he 
created the redoubtable role of Fides for her* 
The part of Jean was given to the tenor Roger, 
the star of the Opera-Comique, and he played 
and sang it well. Levasseur, the Marcel of Les 
Huguenots and the Bertram of Robert, played 
the part of Zacharie. 

Le Prophete was enormously successful in 
spite of the then powerful censer-bearers of the 
Italian school. We now see its defects rather 
than its merits. Meyerbeer is criticised for not 
putting into practice theories he did not know 
and no account is taken of his fearlessness, which 
was great for that period. No one else could 
have drawn the cathedral scene with such breadth 
of stroke and extraordinary brilliancy. The 
paraphrase of Domine salvum fac regem reveals 
great ingenuity. His method of treating the or- 
gan is wonderful, and his idea of the ritournello 
Sur le Jeu de hautbois is charming. This pre- 
cedes and introduces the children's chorus, and is 
constructed on a novel theme which is developed 
brilliantly by the choruses, the orchestra and the 

242 




Meyerbeer, Composer of Les Huguenots 



MEYERBEER 

organ combined. The repetition of the Domine 
Salvum at the end of the scene, which bursts 
forth abruptly in a different key, is full of color 
and character. 

Ill 

The story of Le Pardon de Ploermel is inter- 
esting. It was first called Dinorah, a name 
which Meyerbeer picked up abroad. But Mey- 
erbeer liked to change the titles of his operas 
several times in the course of the rehearsals in 
order to keep public curiosity at fever heat. He 
had the notion of writing an opera-comique in 
one act, and he asked his favorite collaborators, 
Jules Barbier and Michael Carre, for a libretto. 
They produced Dinorah in three scenes and with 
but three characters. The music was written 
promptly and was given to Perrin, the famous 
director, whose unfortunate influence soon made 
itself felt. A director's first idea at that time 
was to demand changes in the piece given him. 
"A single act by you, Master? Is that permis- 
sible? What can we put on after that? Anew 
work by Meyerbeer should take up the entire 

243 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

evening." That was the way the insidious di- 
rector talked, and there was all the more chance 
of his being listened to as the author was pos- 
sessed by a mania for retouching and making 
changes. So Meyerbeer took the score to the 
Mediterranean where he spent the winter. The 
next spring he brought back the work developed 
into three acts with choruses and minor charac- 
ters. Besides these additions he had written the 
words which Barbier and Carre should have done. 
The rehearsals were tedious. Meyerbeer 
wanted Faure and Madame Carvalho in the lead- 
ing roles but one was at the Opera-Comique and 
the other at her own house, the Theatre-Lyrique. 
The work went back and forth from the Place 
Favart to the Place du Chatelet. But the au- 
thor's hesitancy was at bottom only a pretext. 
What he wanted was to secure a postponement 
of Limnander's opera Les Blancs et les Bleu*. 
The action of this work and of Dinorah, as well, 
took place in Brittany. In the hope of being 
Meyerbeer's choice, both theatres turned poor 
Limnander away. Finally, Dinorah fell to the 
Opera-Comique. After long hard work, which 

'244 



MEYERBEER 

the author demanded, Madame Cabel and MM, 
Faure and Sainte-Foix gave a perfect perform- 
ance. 

There was a good deal of criticism of having 
the hunter, the reaper, and the shepherd sing a 
prayer together at the beginning of the third act. 
This was not considered theatrical; to-day that 
is a virtue. 

There was a good deal of talk about UAfri- 
canne, which had been looked for for a long time 
and which seemed to be almost legendary and 
mysterious; it still is for that matter. The sub- 
ject of the opera was unknown. All that was 
known was that the author was trying to find an 
interpreter and could get none to his liking. 

Then Marie Cruvelli, a German singer with 
an Italian training, appeared. With her beauty 
and prodigious voice she shone like a meteor in 
the theatrical firmament. Meyerbeer found his 
Africanne realized in her and at his request she 
was engaged at the Opera. Her engagement 
was made the occasion for a brilliant revival of 
Les Huguenots and Meyerbeer wrote new ballet 
music for it. To-day we have no idea of what 

245 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

* ^^ 

Les Huguenots was then. Then the author 
went back to his Africanne and went to work 
again. He used to go to see the brilliant singer 
about it nearly every day, when she suddenly 
announced that she was going to leave the stage 
to become the Comtesse Vigier ! Meyerbeer was 
discouraged and he threw his unfinished manu- 
script into a drawer where it stayed until Marie 
Sass had so developed her voice and talent that 
he made up his mind to entrust the role of Selika 
to her. He wanted Faure for the role of Nelusko 
and he was already at the Opera, so he had the 
management engage Naudin, the Italian tenor, as 
well. 

But Scribe had died during the long period 
which had elapsed since the marriage of the Com- 
tesse Vigier. Meyerbeer was now left to him- 
self, and too much inclined to revisions of every 
kind as he was, re-made the piece to his fancy. 
"When it was completed it didn't resemble any- 
thing and the author planned to finish it at the 
rehearsals. 

As we know, Meyerbeer died suddenly. He 
realized that he was dying and as he knew how 

246 



MEYERBEER 

necessary his presence was for a performance of 
UAfrieanne he forbade its appearance. But his 
prohibition was only verbal as he could no longer 
write. The public was impatiently awaiting 
L' Africanne, so they went ahead with it. 

When Perrin and his nephew du Locle opened 
the package of manuscripts Meyerbeer had left, 
they were stupefied at finding no UAfrieanne. 

"Never mind/' said Perrin, "the public wants 
an Africanne and it shall have one." 

He summoned Fetis, Meyerbeer's enthusiastic 
admirer, and the three, Fetis, Perrin and du 
Locle, managed to evolve the opera we know 
from the scraps the author had left in disorder. 
They did not accomplish this, however, without 
considerable difficulty, without some incoher- 
ences, numerous suppressions and even addi- 
tions. Perrin was the inventor of the wondjer- 
f ul map on which Selika recognized Madagascar. 
They took the characters there in order to justify 
the term Africanne applied to the heroine. 
They also introduced the Brahmin religion to 
Madagascar in order to avoid moving the char- 
acters to India where the fourth act should take 

247 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

place. The first performance was imminent 
when they found that the work was too long. 
So they cut out an original ballet where a savage 
beat a tom-tom, and they cut and fitted together 
mercilessly. In the last act Selika, alone and 
dying, should see the paradise of the Brahmins 
appear as in a vision. But Faure wanted to 
appear again at the finale, so they had to adapt a 
bit taken from the third act and suppress the 
vision. This is the reason why Nelusko suc- 
cumbs so quickly to the deadly perfume of the 
poisonous flowers, while Selika resists so long. 
The riturnello of Selika's aria, which should be 
performed with lowered curtain as the queen 
gazes over the sea and at the departing vessel far 
away on the horizon, became a vehicle for en- 
cores the last thing that was ever in Meyer- 
beer's mind. But the worst was die liberty Fetis 
took in retouching the orchestration. As a com- 
pliment to Adolph Sax he substituted a saxa- 
phone for the bass clarinet which the author in- 
dicated. This resulted in the suppression of 
that part of the aria beginning Paradis sorti de 
I'onde as the saxophone did not produce a good 

248 



MEYERBEER 

effect. Fetis also allowed Perrin to make over a 
bass solo into a chorus, the Bishop's Chorus. 
The great vocal range in this is poorly adapted 
for a chorus. Some barbarous modulations are 
certainly apocryphal. . . . 

We are unable to imagine what UAfricanne 
would have been if Scribe had lived and the 
authors had put it into shape. The work we 
have is illogical and incomplete. The words are 
simply monstrous and Scribe certainly would not 
have kept them. This is the case in the passage 
in the great duet: 

O ma Selika, vous regnez sur mon ame! 
Ah! ne dis pas ces mots brulante! 
Ils m'egarent moi-meme. . . . 

The music stitched to this impossible piece, 
however, had its admirers even fanatical ad- 
mirers so great was the prestige of the author's 
name at the time of its appearance. We must 
not forget that there are, indeed, some beautiful 
pages in this chaos. The religious ceremony in 
the fourth act and the Brahmin recitative accom- 
panied by the pizzicati of the bass may be men- 

249 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

tioned as an indication of this. The latter pas- 
sage is not in favor, however; they play it down 
without conviction and so deprive it of all its 
strength and majesty. 

I said, at the beginning of this study, that we 
were ungrateful to Meyerbeer, and this ingrati- 
tude is double on the part of France, for he loved 
her* He only had to say the word to have any 
theatre in Europe opened to him, yet he preferred 
to them all the Opera at Paris and even the 
Opera-Comique where the choruses and orchestra 
left much to be desired. When he did work for 
Paris after he had given Margherita d'Anjou and 
Le Crodato in Italy, he was forced to accommo- 
date himself to French taste just as Rossini and 
Donizetti were. The latter wrote for the Opera- 
Comique La Fille du Regiment, a military and 
patriotic work, and its dashing and glorious Salut 
a la France has resounded through the whole 
world. Foreigners do not take so much pains in 
our day, and France applauds Die Meistersinger 
which ends with a hymn to German art. Such 
is progress! 

250 



MEYERBEER 

Something must be said of a little known score, 
Struensee, which was written for a drama which 
was so weak that it prevented the music gaining 
the success it deserved. The composer showed 
himself in this more artistic than in anything else 
he did. It should have been heard at the Odeon 
with another piece written by Jules Barbier on 
the same subject. The overture used to appear 
in the concerts as did the polonnaise, but like the 
overture to Guillaume Tell, they have disap- 
peared. These overtures are not negligible. 
The overture to Guillaume Tell is notable for the 
unusual invention of the five violoncellos and its 
storm with its original beginning, to say nothing 
of its pretty pastoral. The fine depth of tone in 
the exordium of Struensee and the fugue develop- 
ment in the main theme are also not to be de- 
spised. But all that, we are told, is lacking in 
elevation and depth. Possibly; but it is not al- 
ways necessary to descend to Hell and go up to 
Heaven. There is certainly more music in these 
overtures than in Grieg's Peer Gynt which has 
been dinned into our ears so much. 

But enough of this. I must stop with the 
251 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

operas, for to consider the rest of his music would 
necessitate a study of its own and that would take 
us too far afield. My hope is that these lines 
may repair an unnecessary injustice and re-direct 
the fastidious who may read them to a great mu- 
sician whom the general public has never ceased 
to listen to and applaud. 



252 



CHAPTER XXI 

JACQUES OFFENBACH 

It is dangerous to prophesy. Not long ago I 
was speaking of Offenbach, trying to do justice to 
his marvellous natural gifts and deploring his 
squandering them. And I was imprudent 
enough to say that posterity would never know 
him. Now posterity is proving that I was wrong, 
for Offenbach is coming back into fashion. Our 
contemporaneous composers forget that Mozart, 
Beethoven and Sebastian Bach knew how to 
laugh at times. They distrust all gaiety and de- 
clare it unesthetic. As the good public cannot 
resign itself to getting along without gaiety, it 
goes to operetta and turns naturally to Offenbach 
who created it and furnished an inexhaustible 
supply. My phrase is not exaggerated, for Of- 
fenbach hardly dreamed of creating an art. He 
endowed with a genius for the comic and an 
253 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

abundance of melody, but he had no thought of 
doing anything beyond providing material for the 
theatre he managed at the time. As a matter of 
fact he was almost its only author. 

He was unable to rid himself of his Germanic 
influences and so corrupted the taste of an entire 
generation by his false prosody, which has been 
incorrectly considered originality. In addition 
he was lacking in taste. At the time they 
affected a dreadful mannerism of always stopping 
on the next to the last note of a passage, whether 
or not it was associated with a mute syllable. 
This mannerism had no purpose beyond indicat- 
ing to the audience the end of a passage and giv- 
ing the claque the signal to applaud. Offenbach 
did not belong to that heroic strain to which suc- 
cess is the least of its cares. So he adopted this 
mannerism, and often his ingeniously turned and 
charming couplets are ruined by this silly absurd- 
ity now gone out of fashion. 

Furthermore, he wrote badly, for his early edu- 
cation was neglected. If the Tales of Hoffman 
shows traces of a practised pen, it is because Guir- 
aud finished the score and went out of his way 

254 



JACQUES OFFENBACH 

to remedy some of the author's mistakes. Leav- 
ing aside the bad prosody and the minor defects 
in taste, we have left a work which shows 
a wealth of invention, melody, and sparkling 
fancy comparable to Gretry's. 

Gretry was no more a great musician than 
Offenbach, for he also wrote badly. The essen- 
tial difference between the two was the care, 
not only in his prosody but also in his dec<- 
lamation, which Gretry tried to reproduce mu- 
sically with all possible exactness. He over- 
shot the mark in this for he did not see that in 
singing the expression of a note is modified by the 
harmonic scheme which accompanies it. It 
must be recognized, in addition, that many times 
Gretry was carried away by his melodic inventive- 
ness and forgot his own principles so that he rele- 
gated his care for declamation to second place. 

What hurt Gretry was his unbounded conceit, 
with which Offenbach, to his credit, was never 
afflicted. As an indication of this, he dared to 
write in his advice to young musicians: 

"Those who have genius will make opera-com- 
ique like mine; those who have talent will write 

255 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

opera like Gluck's; while those who have neither 
genius nor talent, will write symphonies like 
Haydn's." 

However, he tried to make an opera like 
Gluck's and in spite of his great efforts and his in- 
teresting inventions, he could not equal the work 
of his formidable rival. 

Although he was not a great musician, Offen- 
bach had a surprising natural instinct and made 
here and there curious discoveries in harmony. 
In speaking of these discoveries I must go slightly 
into the theory of harmony and resign myself to 
being understood only by those of my readers who 
are more or less musicians. In a slight work, 
Daphnis et Chloe, Offenbach risked a dominant 
eleventh without either introduction or conclu- 
sion an extraordinary audacity at the time. A 
short course in harmony is necessary for the un- 
derstanding of this. We must start with the fact 
that, theoretically, all dissonances must be intro- 
duced and concluded, which we cannot explain 
here, but this leading up to and away from have 
for their purpose softening the harshness of the 

256 



JACQUES OFFENBACH 

dissonance which was greatly feared in bygone 
times. Take if you please, the simple key of C 
natural. Do is the keynote, sol is the dominant. 
Place on this dominant two-thirds si-re and 
you have the perfect dominant chord. Add a 
third fa and you have the famous dominant sev- 
enth, a dissonance which to-day seems actually 
agreeahle. Not so long ago they thought that 
they ought to prepare for the dissonance. In the 
Sixteenth Century it was not regarded as admis- 
sible at all, for one hears the two notes si and fa 
simultaneously and this seems intolerable to the 
ear. They used to call it the Diabolus in mu- 
sica. 

Palestrina was the first to employ it in an an- 
them. Opinions differ on this, and certain stu- 
dents of harmony pretend that the chord which 
Palestrina used only has the appearance of the 
dominant seventh. I do not concur in this view. 
But however the case may be, the glory of un- 
chaining the devil in music belongs to Montre- 
verde. That was the beginning of modern 
music. 

Later, a new third was superimposed and they 
257 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

dared the chord sol-si-re-ja-la. The inventor is 
unknown, but Beethoven seems to have been the 
first to make any considerable use of it. He used 
the chord in such a way that, in spite of its cur- 
rent use to-day, in his works it appears like some- 
thing new and strange. This chord imposes its 
characteristics on the second motif of the first 
part of the Symphony in C minor. This is what 
gives such amazing charm to the long colloquy 
between the flute, the oboe and the clarinets, 
which always surprises and arouses the listener, 
in the andante of the same symphony. Fetis in 
his Traite d'Harmonie inveighed against this de- 
lightful passage. He admits that people like it, 
but, according to him, the author had no right to 
write it and the listener has no right to admire it* 
Scholars often have strange ideas. 

Then Richard Wagner came along and the 
reign of the ninth dominant took the place of the 
seventh. That is what gives Tannhauser, and 
Lohengrin their exciting character, which is dear 
to those who demand in music above everything 
else the pleasure due to shocks to the nervous sys- 
tem. Imitators have fallen foul of this easy pro- 

258 




Jacques Offenbach 



JACQUES OFFENBACH 

cedure, and with a laughable naivete imagine 
that in this way they can easily equal Wagner. 
And they have succeeded in making this valuable 
chord absolutely banal* 

By adding still another third we have the dom- 
inant eleventh. Offenbach used this, but it has 
played but a small part since then. Beyond that 
we cannot go, for a third more and we are back 
to the basic note, two octaves away. 

But innovations in harmony are rare in Offen- 
bach's worL What makes him interesting is his 
fertility in invention of melodies and few have 
equaled him in this. He improvised constantly 
and with incredible rapidity. His manuscripts 
give the impression of having been done with the 
point of a needle. There is nothing useless any- 
where in them. He used abbreviations as much 
as he could and the simplicity of his harmony 
helped him here. As a result he was able to pro- 
duce his light works in an exceedingly short time. 

He had the luck to attach Madame Ugalde to 
his company. Her powers had already begun to 
decline but she was still brilliant. While she 
was giving a spectacular revival of Orpkee aax 

259 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Enfers, he wrote Les Bavards for her. He was 
inspired by the hope of an unusual interpreta- 
tion and he so surpassed himself that he produced 
a small masterpiece. A revival of this work 
would certainly be successful if that were pos- 
sible, but the peculiar merits of the creatrix of 
the role would be necessary and I do not see her 
like anywhere. 

It is strange but true that Offenbach lost all his 
good qualities as soon as he took himself seri- 
ously. But he was not the only case of this in 
the history of music. Cramer and dementi 
wrote studies and exercises which are marvels of 
style, but their sonatas and concertos are tiresome 
in their mediocrity. Offenbach's works which 
were given at the Opera-Comique Robinson 
Crusoe, Vert-Vert, and Fantasia are much infe- 
rior to La Chanson de Fortunio, La Belle Helena 
and many other justly famous operettas. There 
have been several unprofitable revivals of La 
Belle Helene. This is due to the fact that the 
role of Helene was designed for Mile. Schneider. 
She was beautiful and talented and had an admi- 
rable mezzo-soprano voice. The slight voice of 

260 



JACQUES OFFENBACH 

the ordinary singer of operetta is insufficient for 
the part. Furthermore, traditions have sprung 
up. The comic element has been suppressed 
and the piece has been denatured by this change. 
In Germany they conceived the idea of playing 
this farce seriously with an archaic stage setting! 
Jacques Offenbach will become a classic. 
iWhile this may be unexpected, what doesn't hap- 
pen? Everything is possible even the impos- 
sible. 



261 



CHAPTER XXII 

THEIR MAJESTIES 

Queen Victoria did me the honor to receive me 
twice at Windsor Castle, and Queen Alexandra 
paid me the same honor at Buckingham Palace in 
London. The first time I saw Queen Victoria I 
was presented to her by the Baroness de Caters. 
She was the daughter of Lablache and had one 
of the most beautiful voices and the greatest tal- 
ent that I have ever known. This charming 
woman had been left a widow and so she became 
an artist, appearing in concerts and giving sing- 
ing lessons. At the time of which I speak she was 
teaching Princess Beatrice, now the mother-in- 
law of the King of Spain. In all the glory of the 
freshness of youth, the Princess was endowed 
with a charming voice which the Baroness guided 
perfectly. The Princess received Madame de 
Caters and myself with a gracefulness which 
was increased by her unusual basMulness. 

262 



THEIR MAJESTIES 

Her Majesty, in the meantime, was finishing 
her luncheon. I was somewhat apprehensive 
through having heard of the coldness which the 
Queen affected at this sort of audience, so I was 
more than surprised when she came in with both 
hands extended to take mine and when she ad- 
dressed me with real cordiality. She was very 
fond of Baroness de Caters and that was the secret 
of the reception which put me at my ease at once. 
Her Majesty wanted to hear me play the organ 
(there is an excellent one in the chapel at Wind- 
sor) , and then the piano. Finally, I had the 
honor of accompanying the Princess as she sang 
the aria from Etienne Marcel. Her Royal High- 
ness sang with great clearness and distinctness, 
but it was the first time she had sung before her 
august mother and she was frightened almost to 
death. The Queen was so delighted that some 
days later, without my being told of it, she sum- 
moned to Windsor, Madame Gye, wife of the 
manager of Covent Garden, the famous singer 
Albani to ask to have Etienne Marcel staged at 
her own theatre. The Queen's wish was not 
granted. 

263 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

I returned to Windsor seventeen years later, in 
company with Johann Wolf, who was for many 
years Queen Victoria's chosen violinist. We 
dined at the palace, and, if we did not enjoy the 
distinction of sitting at the royal table, we were 
nevertheless in good company with the young 
princesses, daughters of the Duke of Connaught. 
iWe were lodged at a hotel for the honor of sleep- 
ing at the Castle was reserved for very important 
personages an honor which need not be envied, 
for the sleeping apartments are really servants' 
rooms. But etiquette decrees it. 

Dinner was over, and princes in full uniform 
and princesses in elaborate evening dress stood 
about, waiting for her Majesty's appearance. I 
was heartbroken when I saw her enter, for she 
was almost carried by her Indian servant and ob- 
viously could not walk alone. But once seated 
at a small table, she was just as she had been 
before, with her wonderful charm, her simple 
manner and her musical voice. Only her white 
hair bore witness to the years that had passed* 
She asked me about Henri VIII , which was being 
given for the second time at Covent Garden, and 

264 



THEIR MAJESTIES 

I explained to her that in my desire to give the 
piece the local color of its times I had been fer- 
reting 'about in the royal library at Buckingham 
Palace, to which my friend, the librarian, had 
given me access. And I also told how I had 
found in a great collection of manuscripts of the 
Sixteenth Century an exquisitely fine theme ar- 
ranged for the harpsichord, which served as the 
framework for the opera I used it later for the 
march I wrote for the coronation of King Edward. 
The Queen was much interested in music in gen- 
eral and she appeared to be especially pleased in 
this discussion. His Highness the Duke of Con- 
naught wrote me that she had spoken of it several 
times. 

The musical library at Buckingham Palace is 
most remarkable and it is a pity that access to it is 
not easier. Among other things, there are the 
manuscripts of Handel's oratorios, written for the 
most part with disconcerting rapidity. His Mes- 
siah was composed in fifteen days! The rudi- 
mentary instrumentation of the time made such 
speed possible, yet who is there to-day who could 
write all those fugue choruses with such speed? 

265 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

The fugue manner, which seems laborious to us, 
was current at the time and they were practised 
in it. The library also contains works of Han- 
del's contemporaries, which are executed with the 
same mastery. We cannot say whether they 
were written with the same rapidity as Handel's, 
but it is easy to see that there was a general ability 
to do so, just as now it is a matter of common at- 
tainment to produce complicated orchestral 
effects, the possibility of which the old masters 
had no conception. What made Handel supe- 
rior to his rivals was the romantic and pictur- 
esque side of his works; probably also, his pro- 
digious and unvarying fertility. 

The last word has been said about Queen Vic- 
toria, yet the peculiar charm which radiated from 
her personality cannot be too highly praised. 
She seemed the personification of England. 
When she passed on, it seemed as though a great 
void were left. All King Edward's splendid 
qualities were necessary to take her place, com- 
bined with the effect of the world's surprise at 
discovering a great king where they had expected 

266 



THEIR MAJESTIES 

to see only a brilliant prince who tad been a con- 
stant lover of pomp and pleasure. 

I was later admitted to Buckingham Palace to 
play with Josef Hollman, the violinist, before 
Queen Alexandra. We both were eager for this 
opportunity which we were told was impossible. 
The Queen was very busy, and, in addition, she 
was in mourning for the successive deaths of her 
father and mother, the King and Queen of Den- 
mark. Suddenly, however, we learned that she 
would receive us. She was pale and appeared 
to be feeble, but she received us with the utmost 
cordiality. She spoke to me about her mother, 
whom I had seen at Copenhagen with her sisters 
the Empress Dowager of Russia, and the Princess 
of Hanover whom politics deprived of a crown 
which was hers by right. I have a very pleasant 
recollection of this visit. I do not know how it 
happened but I remained speechless at this lead 
from the Queen. She brought the subject up a 
second time and my timidity still prevented my 
responding. I ought to have had many things 
to say to one so obviously eager to listen. This 

267 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

Queen of Denmark, with her eighty years, was 
the most delightful old lady imaginable. Erect, 
slight, alert of mind and unfaltering of speech, 
she reminded me vividly of my maternal great- 
aunt, that extraordinary woman, who gave me my 
first notions of things and directed my hand on 
the keys so well. 

A singer whom I had never seen or heard of, 
but of whom I had heard poor reports, had writ- 
ten Queen Louise that I wanted to accompany her 
to court. The Queen asked me if I knew her and 
if what she had written was true. My surprise 
was so great that I could not repress a start, which 
I followed by an exclamation of denial, which ap- 
peared to amuse her greatly. "I did not doubt 
it," she said, "but I'm not sorry to be sure." 

Queen Alexandra was accompanied by Lady 
Gray, her great friend, and the hereditary prin- 
cess of Greece. After M. Hollman and I had 
played a duet, she expressed a desire to hear me 
play alone. As I attempted to lift the lid of the 
piano, she stepped forward to help me raise it be- 
fore the maids of honor could intervene. After 
this slight concert she delivered to each of us, in 

268 



THEIR MAJESTIES 

her own name and in that of the absent king, a 
gold medal commemorative of artistic merit, and 
she offered us a cup of tea which she poured with 
her royal and imperial hands. 

Other queens have also received me Queen 
Christine of Spain and Queen Amelie of Portu- 
gal. After Queen Christine had heard me play 
on the piano, she expressed a desire to hear me 
play the organ, and they chose for this an excel- 
lent instrument made by Cavaille-Coll in a 
church whose name I have forgotten. The day 
was fixed for this ceremony, which would natur- 
ally have been of a private character, when some 
great ladies lectured the indiscreet queen for dar- 
ing to resort to a sacred place for any purpose 
besides taking part in divine services. The 
queen was displeased by this remonstance and 
she responded by coming to the church not only 
not incognito, but in great state, with the king 
(he was very young) , the ministers and the court, 
while horsemen stationed at intervals blew their 
trumpets. I had written a religious march es- 
pecially for this event, and the Queen kindly ac- 
cepted its dedication to her* I was a little flus- 

269 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

tered when she asked me to play the too familiar 
melody from Samson et Dalila which begins Mon, 
coeur s'ouvre a ta voioc. I had to improvise a 
transposition suited for the organ, something I 
had never dreamt of doing. During the per- 
formance the Queen leaned her elbow on the key- 
board of the organ, her chin resting on one hand 
and her eyes upturned. She seemed rapt in ex- 
stasy which, as may be imagined, was not pre- 
cisely displeasing to the author. 

The press of the day printed delightful arti- 
cles about the scene, but with no pretense to accu- 
racy. I had nothing to do with that in any way. 

Her Majesty Queen Amelie of Portugal once 
honored me in a distinctive manner. She re- 
ceived me alone without any of her ladies of 
honor, which allowed her to dispense with all eti- 
quette and to have me sit in a chair near her. In 
this intimate way she entertained me for three- 
quarters of an hour asking questions on all sorts 
of subjects. I had the chance to tell her how the 
oriental theme of the ballet in Samson had been 
given to me years before by General Yusuf, and 
to give her many details of that interesting per- 

270 



THEIR MAJESTIES 

sonage of whom she had heard her uncles speak. 

"I am going to leave you," she said at last, 
"but not because I want to. If one conscien- 
tiously practices the metier of being a queen, one 
doesn't always find it amusing." 

What would that unhappy woman have said, 
could she have foreseen the calamities that were 
to befall her! 

In Rome I had the honor to be invited to a 
musicale at Queen Margharita's. The great 
drawing-rooms were filled with great ladies laden 
down with family jewels of fabulous value. All 
the music was terribly serious. Now this kind of 
music does not make for personal acquaintance, 
especially as all these great people were victims 
of a boredom ^they did their best to conceal. 
Afterwards the two queens wanted to talk to me. 
Queen Helene, who is a violinist, told me that her 
children were learning the violin and the cello, an 
arrangement I praised highly, for the exclusive 
devotion to the piano in these later days has been 
the death of chamber music and almost of music 
itself. 

In my gallery of sovereigns I cannot forget the 
271 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

gracious Queen of Belgium. I have always seen 
her, however, in company with her august hus- 
band, and this story would become interminable 
if I were to include "Their Majesties" of the 
sterner sex the Emperor of Germany, the Kings 
of Sweden, Denmark, Spain, Portugal. . . . 

As I have had more to do with princes than 
with sovereigns, my tongue sometimes slips in 
talking to the latter. As I excused myself one 
day for addressing the Queen of Belgium as 
"Highness," she replied, with a smile, "Don't 
apologize; that recalls good times." 

She told me of the time when she and the king, 
then only heirs apparent, used to go up and down 
the Mediterranean coast in a little two-seated 
car. It was during this period that I had the 
honor of meeting them at the palace of his Serene 
Highness the Prince of Monaco, and of having 
charming and interesting personal conversation 
with them, for the king is a savant and the queen 
an artist. 



272 



CHAPTER XXIII 

MUSICAL PAINTERS 

Ingres was famous for his violin. A single 
wall separated the apartment where I lived dur- 
ing my childhood and youth from the one where 
the painter Granger, one of Ingres's pupils, with 
his wife and daughter, lived. Granger painted 
the Adoration of the Wise Men in the church of 
Notre Dame de Lorette. I have played with the 
gilt paper crown which his model wore when pos- 
ing as one of the three kings. My mother and 
Mile. Granger (who later became Madame Paul 
Meurice) both loved painting and become great 
friends. They copied together Paul Delaroche's 
Enfants d'Edouard at the Louvre, a picture which 
was the rage at that time. My mother's paint- 
ings, in an admirable state of preservation, may 
be seen at the museum at Dieppe. 

I was introduced to Ingres when I was five 
273 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

years old through the Granger family. The dis- 
tance from the Rue du Jardinet, where we lived, 
to the Quai Voltaire was not far, and we often 
went like a procession the Grangers, my great- 
aunt Masson, my mother and I to call upon In- 
gres and his wife, a delightfully simple woman 
whom everyone loved. 

Ingres often talked to me about Mozart, Gluck, 
and all the other great masters of music. When 
I was six years old, I composed an Adagio which I 
dedicated to him in all seriousness. Fortunately 
this masterpiece has been lost. As I already 
played, and rather nicely for my years, some of 
Mozart's sonatas, Ingres, in return for my dedi- 
cation, presented me with a small medallion with 
the portrait of the author of Don Juan on one 
side, and this inscription on the other: "To M. 
Saint-Saens, the charming interpreter of the di- 
vine artist." 

He carelessly omitted to add the date of this 
dedication, which would have increased its inter- 
est, for the idea of calling a knee-high youngster 
of six "M. Saint-Saens'* was certainly unusual. 

In addition to the calls I paid him, when I was 
274 



\ 




./ 

'' 



Ingres, the painter famous for his -violin 



J 



MUSICAL PAINTERS 

older I often met the great painter at the house 
of Frederic Reiset, one of his most ardent admir- 
ers. They made much of music in that house- 
hold and we often heard there Delsarte, the singer 
without a voice, whom Ingres admired very much. 
Delsarte and Henri Reber were, in fact, his musi- 
cal mentors, and, in spite of his pretence of heing 
a great connoisseur, he was in reality their echo. 
He affected, for example, the most profound con- 
tempt for all modern music, and would not even 
listen to it. In this respect he reflected Reber. 
Reber used to say quietly in his far-away nasal 
voice, "You've got to imitate somebody, so the 
best thing to do is to imitate the ancients, for they 
are the best." However, he undertook to prove 
the contrary by writing some particularly individ- 
ual music, when he thought he was imitating 
Haydn and Mozart. Some of his works, in their 
perfection of line, their regard for details, their 
purity and their moderation remind one of In- 
gres's drawings which express so much in such a 
simple way. And Ingres, as well, although he 
tried to imitate Raphael, could only be himself. 
Reber would have been worthy of comparison 

275 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

\vith the painter, if he had had the power and 
productiveness which distinguish genius. 

What about Ingres's violin ? Well, I saw this 
famous violin for the first time in the Montaubon 
Museum. Ingres never even spoke to me about 
it. He is said to have played it in his youth, but 
I could never persuade him to play even the 
slightest sonata with me. "I used to play," he 
replied to my entreaties, "the second violin in a 
quartet, but that is all." 

So I think I must be dreaming when I read, 
from time to time, that Ingres was more apprecia- 
tive of compliments about his violin-playing than 
those about his painting. That is merely a leg- 
end, but it is impossible to destroy a legend. As 
the good La Fontaine said: 

"Man is like ice toward truth; 
He is like fire to untruth." 

I do not know whether Ingres showed talent 
for the violin in his youth or not. But I can state 
positively that in his maturity he showed none. 

Gustave Dore was also said to be famous on 
the violin, and his claims to consideration were 

276 



MUSICAL PAINTERS 

far from inconsiderable. He had acquired a val- 
uable instrument, on which he used to pky Ber- 
lioz's Concertos with a really extraordinary facil- 
ity and spirit. These superficial works were 
enough for his musical powers. The surprising 
things about his execution was that he never 
worked at it. If he could not get a thing at once, 
he gave it up for good and all. 

He was a frequent attendant at Rossini's salon, 
and he belonged to the faction which supported 
melody and opposed "learned scientific music." 
His temperament and mine hardly seem compat- 
ible, but friendship, like love, has its inexplicable 
mysteries, and gradually we became the best of 
friends. We lived in the same quarter and we 
visited each other frequently. As we almost 
never were of the same opinion about anything, 
we had interminable arguments, entirely free 
from rancor, which we thoroughly enjoyed. 

I finally became the confidant of his secret sor- 
rows, and his innermost griefs. He was en- 
dowed with a wonderful visual memory, but he 
made the mistake of never using models, for in 
his opinion they were useless for an artist wfro 

277 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

knew his metier. So he condemned himself to a 
perpetual approximation, which was enough for 
illustrations demanding only life and character, 
but fatal for large canvasses, with half or full 
sized figures. This was the cause of his disap- 
pointments and failures which he attributed to 
malevolence and a hostility, which really did ex- 
ist, but which took advantage of this opportunity 
to make the painter pay for the exaggerated suc- 
cess of the designer that had been extravagantly 
praised by the press from the beginning. He 
laid himself open to criticism through his abuse 
of his own facility. I have seen him painting 
away on thirty canvasses at the same time in his 
immense studio. Three seriously studied pic- 
tures would have been worth more. 

At heart this great overgrown jovial boy was 
melancholy and sensitive. He died young from 
heart disease, which was aggravated by grief over 
the death of his mother from whom he had never 
been separated. 

I dedicated a slight piece written for the violin 
to Dore. This was not lost as the one to Ingres 
was, but it would be entirely unknown had not 

278 



MUSICAL PAINTERS 

Johannes Wolf, the violinist of queens and em- 
presses, done me the favor of placing it in his 
repertoire and bringing his fine talent to its aid. 

Hebert was the most serious of the painter- vio- 
linists. Down to the end of his life he delighted 
in playing the sonatas of Mozart and Beethoven, 
and, from all accounts, he played them remark- 
ably. I can say this only from hearsay, for I 
never heard him. The few times that I ever saw 
him at home in my youth, I found him with his 
brush in hand. I saw him after that only at the 
Academie, where we sat near each other, and he 
always greeted me cordially. We talked music 
from time to time, and he conversed like a con- 
noisseur. 

Henri Regnault was the most musical of all 
the painters whom I have known. He did .not 
need a violin he was his own. Nature had en- 
dowed him with an exquisite tenor voice. It was 
alluring in its timbre and irresistible in its attrac- 
tiveness, just as he was himself. He was no 
"near musician." He loved music passionately, 
and he was unwilling to sing as an amateur. He 
took lessons from Romain Bussine at the Con- 

279 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

servatoire. He sang to perfection the difficult 
arias of Mozart's Don Juan. He also liked to 
declaim the magnificent recitative of Pilgrimage 
in the third act of Tannhauser. 

As we were friendly and liked the same things, 
the sympathy which brought us together was 
quite natural. At the beginning of the war in 
1870 I wrote Les Melodies Persanes and Reg- 
nault was their first interpreter. Sabre en main 
is dedicated to him. But his great success was 
Le Cimitiere. Who would have thought as he 
sang: 

"To-day the roses, 
To-morrow the cypress!" 

that the prophecy would be realized so soon? 

Some imbeciles have written that the loss of 
Regnault was not to be regretted; that he had 
said all he had to say. In reality he had given 
only the prologue of the great poem which he 
was working out in his brain. He had already 
ordered canvasses for great compositions which, 
without a doubt, would have been among the 
glories of French art. 

280 



MUSICAL PAINTERS 

I saw him for the last time during the siege. 
He was just starting for drill with his rifle in his 
hand. One of the four watercolors which were 
his last work, stood uncompleted on his easel. 
There was a shapeless spot at the bottom. He 
held a handkerchief in his free hand. He mois- 
tened this from time to time with saliva and kept 
tapping away on the spot on the picture. To my 
great astonishment, almost to my fright, I saw 
roughed out and finished the head of a lion. 

A few days afterwards came Buzenval! 

When the question of publishing Henri Reg- 
nault's letters came up, some phrases referring to 
me and ranking me above my rivals were found 
in them. The editor of the letter got into com- 
munication with me, read me the phrases, and an- 
nounced that they were to be suppressed, because 
they might displease the other musicians. 

I knew who the other musicians were, and 
whose puppet the editor was. It would have 
been possible, it seems to me, without hurting 
anyone, to include the exaggerated praise, which, 
coming from a painter, had no weight, and which 
would have proved nothing except the great 

281 



MUSICAL MEMORIES 

friendship which inspired it. I have always re- 
gretted that the public did not learn of the senti- 
ments with which the great artist, whom I loved 
so much, honored me. 



THE END 



282 



