~ THIRTY YEARS 
OF MVSICAL LIFE 
IN LONDON 

[C1870 





BY HERMANN KLEIN 



FACULTY 




Presented to the 

Faculty of Music Library 

by 

Arthur Plettner 

and 
Isa Mcllwraith 



UNIVERSITY 
OF TORONTO 



Thirty Years of 
Musical Life in London 




From a daguerreotype owned by Mme. Patti 

ADELINA PATTI AT THE AGE OF NINE 



Thirty Years of 
Musical Life in London 

1870-1900 

By 

Hermann Klein 



With more than one hundred illustrations 
from photographs 




New York 
The Century Co, 

1903 




Copyright, 1903, by 
THE CENTURY Co. 



Published October, 1903 



THE DEVINNE PRESS 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 

FACULTY OF MUSIC 

LIBRARY 



7O.99J 



TO 

SIGNOR MANUEL GARCIA 

THE MOST ILLUSTRIOUS SINGING TEACHER 

OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 

THIS BOOK IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED 

BY HIS GRATEFUL PUPIL 

HERMANN KLEIN 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER I. Early Norwich days A famous English fes- 
tival My school-master describes Paganini Jenny Lind 
Spohr Julius Benedict Benedict and Beethoven- 
Theresa Tietjens A great artist and a brave woman . 3 

CHAPTER II. Youthful work and experiences in London 
My brother Max French refugees of 1871 Alboni 
Joseph Joachim James Davison and the "Pops" 
Manuel Garcia, teacher and friend The great master's 
method His sister Malibran 22 

CHAPTER III. Start of journalistic career A musical 
critic at twenty "Lohengrin" in London Carl Rosa 
His memorable season at the Princess's Revival of Eng- 
lish Opera Early days of "interviewing" Sir Michael 
Costa August Manns and cheap orchestral music Jean 
de Reszke's barytone de"but 42 

CHAPTER IV. Verdi at the Albert Hall The Maestro and 
his old classmate The Manzoni "Requiem" Wagner 
revisits London The Festival of 1877: its true history 
Wagner and Wilhelmj The Meister and English preju- 
diceHis collapse at rehearsal Hans Richter Wagner 
" hi the chair " 59 

CHAPTER V. Cambridge degrees for Brahms and Joachim 
Performance of the " Exercises " " Carmen " produced 
at Her Majesty's D6but of Minnie Hauk A versatile and 
accomplished prima donna Carmen visits Seville Anton 
Rubinstein Pablo Sarasate Etelka Gerster Gayarre 
Lassalle Edouard de Reszke A rare galaxy of talent 
The Richter Concerts . , 79 

vii 



Contents 



PAGE 

CHAPTER VI. Musical critic of the "Sunday Times" 
The Duke of Cambridge and his journalistic sons Queen 
Victoria's music-loving aunt F. Paolo Tosti The Queen's 
"Master of the Musick" Her Majesty's musical library 
A State Concert at Buckingham Palace German opera 
in London Gounod conducts his " Redemption" . . . 107 

CHAPTER VII. Augustus Harris: actor, metteur en sc&ne, 
dramatic author, theatrical manager, operatic impresario 
A great stage-manager and his military aide Harris 
and Carl Rosa English opera flourishes at Drury Lane 
Arthur Goring Thomas Alexander C. Mackenzie 
"Esmeralda,""Colomba,"and"Nadeshda" 135 

CHAPTER VIII. Decay of old Italian opera Rise of the 
young Italian school Masterly mismanagement and finan- 
cial collapse at Covent Garden Pauline LuccaA nota- 
ble dinner-party Marcella Sembrich's surprise Antonin 
Dvorak relates the story of his romantic career Camille 
Saint-Saens The French master and English oratorio . 152 

CHAPTER IX. Fra,nz Liszt His last visit to London A 
marvelous survival of a glorious past Rubinstein's fare- 
well to England: his "historical recitals" An operatic 
debacle Lago to the rescue Growth of the Wagner 
Cult Hans Richter and Arthur Sullivan England's great- 
est musician: his ideas, habits, and attributes " The 
Golden Legend " at Leeds Festival Georg Henschel . 177 

CHAPTER X. Augustus Harris and Italian opera An am- 
bitious scheme To France and Spain in search of artists 
Engaging the de Reszkes The great tenor's early 
career Madrid and Mancinelli An amateur bull-fight 
Seville Opening of the Drury Lane season Jean de 
Reszke's triumph A barytone's temper 207 

CHAPTER XI. The Operatic Renaissance Royalty and soci- 
ety interested A brilliant Covent Garden season D6but 

viii 



Contents 



PAGE 

of Melba The famous " French Trio " : their life in Lon- 
donA vocal duel Bayreuth in the first " Meistersinger " 
year A visit to Ems and its consequences 230 

CHAPTER XII. Patti and Jean de Reszke in " Romeo et 
Juliette" Historical night at the Paris Opera Carl 
Rosa's death The controlling influence at Covent Garden 
Lightning opera production "Rome" o" in French; 
"Die Meistersinger" in Italian First gala night Queen 
Victoria and Jean de Reszke 256 

t 

CHAPTER XIII. Opera in America and England Prog- 
ress at Covent Garden Jean de Reszke's Don Jos6 
Harris and the Wagner performing rights Debut of 
Paderewski The Critics and the Virtuoso A new musi- 
cal "Lion" Great artist and true friend An evening 
with Paderewski 284 

CHAPTER XIV. Adelina Patti at home Life at Craig-y- 
nos Castle Opening of the Patti Theatre: inaugural 
operatic performance Preparing " wordless " plays The 
diva as La Tosca Her love of Wagner Bayreuth by 
proxy and in reality "The Queen of Song": an ap- 
preciationHow shte reappeared at Covent Garden A 
strange presentiment 307 

CHAPTER XV. A meteoric opera scheme Sullivan's " Ivan- 
hoe" How composed: how "run to death" Debut of 
Eugene Oudin David Bispham appears in "La Basoche " 
Oudin and Tschaikowsky : a singular coincidence 
The Russian master's journey to Cambridge First and 
last meetings" Cavalleria Rusticana " at London and 
Windsor Jean de Reszke's American debut: his im- 
pressions 332 

CHAPTER XVI. German opera at Covent Garden Mahler 
as conductor Debuts of Alvary and Schumann-Heink 
A growing repertory Victor Maurel and Manuel Garcia: 

ix 



Contents 



PAGE 

the renowned teacher vindicated De"but of Clara Butt 
Leoncavallo and Mascagni in London How "Caval- 
leria" was first rehearsed at Rome "I Rantzau" Mas- 
cagni at Windsor Castle More State Performances . . 363 

CHAPTER XVII. A double artistic jubilee August Manns 
honored Garcia' s " Hints on Singing " Opera in 1894 
New orchestral institutions Opening of Queen's Hall 
A procession of famous conductors Richard Strauss 
With Seidl at Bayreuth A Wagner anecdote Covent 
Garden in 1895 New pianists 393 

CHAPTER XVIII. A visit to America Jean de Reszke as 
a German singer Nordica's triumph A private recital 
of "Tristan" The London season of 1896 Death of Sir 
Augustus Harris Two funerals at St. Paul's Edward 
Elgar "In a Persian Garden" Charles Salaman Puc- 
cini's " La Boheme" Operas and debuts in 1897 Opera 
at Windsor : the Queen's last " commands " 419 

CHAPTER XIX. Operatic retrogression The seasons of 
1898, 1899, 1900 Purchase of the Covent Garden lease 
The "Perosi craze" Final remarks on the Harris 
regime Death of Sims Reeves Edward Lloyd's retire- 
mentEnglish singers and English festivals: a con- 
cluding retrospect 448 



X 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 



Adelina Patti at the Age of Nine . . . Frontispiece 

St. Andrew's Hall, Norwich. Exterior and Interior . . 5 

Jenny Lind, about 1866 11 

Sir Julius Benedict ........ 11 

Tietjens as Lucrezia Borgia 18 

Hermann Klein 23 

Alboni 29 

Christine Nilsson 40 

Scalchi 40 

Carl Rosa 46 

Parepa-Rosa 46 

August Manns 51 

Luigi Arditi 51 

Wagner 62 

Verdi 62 

Brahms 69 

Wilhelmj 69 

Materna . ' . . 76 

Sir Michael Costa 81 

Hans Richter 81 

Minnie Hauk 88 

Clara Louise Kellogg 88 

xi 



List of Illustrations 



PAGE 

Anton Rubinstein , 91 

Sarasate 91 

Del Puente as Escamillo 98 

Gayarre as Vasco di Gama 98 

Etelka Gerster 103 

Emma Nevada 103 

Albani as Desdemona 109 

Patey . 109 

Facsimile of a State Concert Programme . . . 116 

Reicher-Kindermann as Brilnnhilde 122 

Anton Seidl-1882 122 

Klaf sky as Isolde 127 

RosaSucher 127 

Santley 133 

Edward Lloyd .133 

Joseph Maas as Faust 144 

Alwina Valleria as Aida 144 

A. Goring Thomas .149 

Sir Alex. C. Mackenzie 149 

Bo'ito 155 

Pauline Lucca 155 

Marcella Sembrich 161 

Saint-Saens 171 

Dvorak 171 

Franz Liszt 182 

Campanini 187 

James H. Mapleson 187 

Sir William Cusins 193 

xii 



List of Illustrations 



PAGE 

Sir Arthur Sullivan 193 

Lillian Henschel . * . .": .... 200 

Georg Henschel . . . . . . . . 200 

Sir Augustus Harris . , . . . . 206 

Zelie de Lussan . . . . , . . v 215 

Marie Engle . . . .'Y . .' * ||J . 215 

Maurel as Don Giovanni . . . . . . . 225 

Melba as Marguerite . . . * . . . 231 

Tamagno as Otello . V . . . . ' , . 242 

Ella Russell . , */ . . I ; . . 247 

Lassalle . . \ . . . .^ . . . 247 

Jean de Reszke as Romeo . , . . . . . 257 

Edouard de Reszke as Frere Laurent . .- . . 268 

Luigi Mancinelli . . . ...'-. , 276 

Lady de Grey . .. . . , 276 

The Waterloo Chamber, Windsor Castle . . . . 281 

Paderewski . . . . ... . .. 294 

Sir Charles Halle" , . . . . . . .303 

Lady Halle . . x . . V . . . . . 303 

Patti as Juliette . . % . . . . .311 

Patti, about 1861 . ... . . * . 311 

Patti as Marguerite . -*; . . ... 326 

Patti as Ninetta . . . . . . , . 326 

David Bispham as the Due de LonguevilU . . . . 333 

Eugene Oudin as the Templar . . . . . 333 

"Birds of a Feather" . . . . '. . . 339 

Gounod . , . 346 

Tschaikowsky . . . . . . . . . 346 

xiii 



List of Illustrations 



PAGE 

Van Rooy as Wotan . 352 

Plane, on as Mephistopheles . 352 

Emma Eames as Juliette 358 

Alvary as Siegfried .367 

Calve" as Carmen 373 

Mascagni 380 

Leoncavallo 380 

Suzanne Adams as Marguerite 389 

Alvarez as Otello 389 

Piatti 395 

Joachim . 395 

Ternina 405 

Eugen d' Albert 416 

Arthur ChappeU 416 

Nordica as Brunnhilde 421 

Maurice Grau 428 

Puccini . . . 428 

Sir Joseph Barnby .434 

Edward Elgar 434 

Schumann-Heink as Ortrud 440 

Fritzi Scheff as Nedda 445 

Marie Brema as Amneris 445 

Lilli Lehmann as Isolde 451 

Dippel as Siegfried . 458 

Scotti as Don Giovanni 458 

Gadski as Elisabeth 463 

Clara Butt 469 

Sims Reeves 469 

xiv 



PREFATORY NOTE 

NOT the least valuable asset of a life largely spent 
among artists is a good memory. From an early 
age I cultivated the faculty of making mental 
notes ; and, like most faculties, innate or acquired, 
it grew until it developed into second nature. 
During my quarter of a century's work as a Lon- 
don musical critic, I seldom found it necessary to 
do more than jot down a word or two in the mar- 
gin of a programme as a preliminary to the writing 
of an article. I accustomed my eye and ear to 
take records of what I saw and heard ; and, where 
I happened to be sufficiently interested, those 
records assumed a more or less permanent form. 

Most of the purely personal incidents related in 
these pages appear in print for the first time. So, 
also, do the letters which I have ventured to select 
for publication from a numerous autograph col- 
lection. Where the originals of these letters are 
in a foreign tongue, the English translation only is 
given. I have endeavored, save in one or two 
special instances, to avoid mere biographical de- 

XV 



Prefatory Note 



tails, particularly in the case of those musicians, 
dead and living, whose careers are in all essential 
matters familiar to the public. 

My object is rather to furnish sketches of fa- 
mous musical personages, and to set before the 
reader hitherto unrecorded scenes and events in 
their lives, together with slight studies of tem- 
perament and character, which may be of value 
in so far as they tend to throw a side-light upon 
the personality of the notable individuals with 
whom they deal. At the same time, by placing 
these as nearly as possible in chronological order, 
and supplementing them with brief accounts of 
all the prominent debuts and first performances 
that I have personally witnessed, the outcome is a 
tolerably complete picture of operatic and musical 
life in England during the last three decades of 
the nineteenth century. 

By far the most important feature of these 
chronicles is the history of the remarkable re- 
naissance of Opera effected through the ambitious 
spirit and energy of the late Sir Augustus Harris, 
impresario of the Royal Opera, Covent G-arden; 
manager of Drury Lane ; and sometime Sheriff of 
London. The inception, growth, and development 
of that interesting movement have not, so far as 
I am aware, been traced by any other writer ; and 

xvi 



Prefatory Note 



the story acquires added value and significance 
from the fact that the scheme of fashionable 
Opera evolved by Augustus Harris in London 
is absolutely identical with that so ably carried 
on, until the spring of the present year, by Maurice 
Grau in New York. 

I trust that I have succeeded in accomplishing 
my task without overstepping the border-line 
which should separate the friend from the critic. 
I have always watched that delicate yet important 
boundary with scrupulous care; and, happily, I 
have found it easy to observe and obey without 
loss of good- will or esteem on either side. Hence 
the existence of warm friendly ties with so many 
of the distinguished artists whom it has been my 
privilege to meet ties very dear to me, yet the 
delight whereof, under less well-balanced condi- 
tions, I should regretfully have been compelled to 
deny myself. 

HERMANN KLEIN. 

NEW YORK, April, 1903. 



XV11 



THIRTY YEARS OF 
MUSICAL LIFE IN LONDON 



THIRTY YEARS OF 
MUSICAL LIFE IN LONDON 

* 

CHAPTER I 

Early Norwich days A famous English festival My school- 
master describes Paganini Jenny Lind Spohr Julius 
Benedict Benedict and Beethoven Theresa Tietjens A 
great artist and a brave woman. 

I WAS born in the musical city of Norwich. The 
epithet " musical" is not undeserved. Search 
the whole United Kingdom through, and you will 
scarcely find a place that can boast an older or 
more intimate connection with the " divine art" 
than the ancient capital of East Anglia. Its noble 
cathedral, its threescore churches, its chapels with- 
out number, are ever helping to create and sustain 
in the population a love of music. Above all, it 
is the scene, once in every three years, of a famous 
musical gathering. The "Norfolk and Norwich 
Musical Festival" (to give the full title) not only 
vies in age with those of the Three Choirs, Glou- 
cester, Worcester, and Hereford, but very nearly 
ranks in importance with the triennial meetings of 
its richer sisters, Birmingham and Leeds. 

My parents were not musical by profession ; but 
the fact that both were engaged in professional 



Thirty Years of 



vocations, coupled with their ardent love of the 
art, brought them into association with many of 
the operatic and vocal celebrities who visited the 
city from time to time. Our house on Elm Hill 
stood within sound of the cathedral chimes, and 
barely a stone's throw from St. Andrew's Hall, 
the quaint old Gothic building, half church, half 
concert-room, in which the festival rehearsals and 
performances were always held. 

From the first I seemed to breathe the ' * festival 
atmosphere" of the place. On the very evening I 
was born (the date, I may mention, was July 23, 
1856) there was a rehearsal of Sir Michael Costa 's 
* ' Eli ' ' ; and as the voices of the choir were wafted 
through the windows on the hot summer air, the 
question arose whether it would not be appropriate 
to name me after the venerable priest who was 
the hero of the oratorio then being interpreted. 
However, it had been determined that in the event 
of my being a boy I should receive my father's 
name of Hermann. Fortunately, that decision was 
adhered to, and I was spared the fate of being ad- 
dressed by my intimate friends for the whole of 
my life as "Eli." 

The echoes of the festival proceedings pene- 
trated even the thick walls of my school class- 
rooms. For the worthy principal of Opie House 
School (so named after the gifted Norwich painter, 
John Opie, who had once occupied the red-bricked 
dwelling which still stands opposite St. Clement's 
Church) was a highly respected member of the 




EXTERIOR 




INTERIOR 
ST. ANDREW'S HALL, NORWICH 

From photographs by C. Brand & Co., Norwich 



Musical Life in London 



festival chorus. He owned a capital bass voice, 
and was a first-rate musician. What is more, he 
knew a good singer when he heard one. It was his 
delight to describe to us how superbly Sims Reeves 
had sung "Deeper and deeper still"; with what 
thrilling expression Mile. Tietjens had phrased "I 
know that my Redeemer liveth"; how inimitable 
Mme. Sainton-Dolby had been in "He was de- 
spised"; and what a remarkable voice he had 
heard in the bass solos of the "Messiah" that of 
the famous Weiss, who composed the music of 
"The Village Blacksmith." 

He could go back a good many years, too, could 
my musical schoolmaster. When in the mood he 
would tell us how, as a youth, he had been taken 
to St. Andrew's Hall to hear the great Paganini. 
With an air of awe he would describe the weird 
aspect and lean, lank form of the illustrious fiddler, 
as he stood upon the platform in his closely but- 
toned swallow-tailed coat, playing amid a silence 
so intense that his auditors almost feared lest their 
breathing might break the spell. 

1 1 Never before or since, ' ' my teacher would say, 
"have I seen an audience wrought to such a pitch 
of excitement. It was partly the influence of the 
individual himself, no doubt; but it was also due 
to the strangely wonderful beauty of the tone that 
he obtained from his instrument, and the fascina- 
tion of a method which completely concealed the 
nature of the difficulties he surmounted. As I 
listened I seemed to forget that Paganini was a 



Thirty Years of 



man. Gradually he assumed the character of a 
magician, an executant endowed with positively 
supernatural powers!" And such I imagine was 
the impression actually produced by this marvel- 
ous violinist upon nine out of every ten persons 
who heard him. 

It was in St. Andrew's Hall, also, that I was 
vouchsafed as a boy the privilege of hearing, on 
a solitary occasion only, one of the greatest artists 
the world has ever possessed. I refer to Jenny 
Lind. The close association which existed between 
that gifted and noble woman and the city of Nor- 
wich is a matter of common knowledge. A bishop 
of Norwich (Dr. Stanley) it was who persuaded 
the first of the "Swedish Nightingales 7 ' to aban- 
don, on religious grounds, the operatic stage; 
which premature and much-regretted event oc- 
curred in 1849. But the famous singer frequently 
visited Norwich, and more than once she appeared 
at concerts given on behalf of the funds of the 
Jenny Lind Infirmary for Children, an institution 
founded by her and still flourishing in the old city. 

At one of these concerts, some time during the 
middle "sixties," I heard Jenny Lind sing. The 
voice, I remember perfectly, was as exquisitely 
clear and fresh as a young girl's; its sweet tones 
haunted me long afterward. Of the wondrous art 
of the great singer I was too young to judge ; but 
I shall never forget what she sang, or the rare 
wealth of religious sentiment with which she in- 
vested the prayer of Agathe in the favorite scena 

8 



Musical Life in London 



from "Der Freischiitz." Upon the stage, of 
course, the heroine of Weber's opera always kneels 
while uttering her touching appeal for her lover's 
safe return, and Jenny Lind also knelt while sing- 
ing the same passage upon the platform of St. 
Andrew's Hall on the occasion I am alluding to. 1 

In later years Mme. Jenny Lind-Goldschmidt 
used to be a conspicuous figure at the concerts of 
the London Bach Choir, whereof her husband, Mr. 
Otto Goldschmidt, was the first conductor. She 
would modestly take her place in the front row of 
the sopranos, with the most musical of the Queen 's 
daughters, the Princess Christian of Schleswig- 
Holstein, for her near companion. Moreover, she 
took an active part in the training of the female 
voices, and to her skilful instruction was in a large 
measure due the facility and brilliancy with which 
they executed the difficult passages in Bach's B 
minor Mass (performed for the first time in Eng- 
land April 26, 1876). The great singer died at 
Malvern, November 2, 1887, and seven years later 
I was present at the unveiling of the tablet, with 
medallion portrait, which now does honor to her 
memory in the south transept of Westminster Ab- 
bey. She is so far the only musical artist, other 
than a composer, whose lineaments have been ex- 
posed upon the walls of that ancient fane. 

*My boyish imagination can hardly have led me astray in this 
matter. Besides, it was precisely the kind of impulse that the 
emotional exaltation of this deeply religious woman would have 
prompted her to yield to, regardless of the every-day convention- 
alities of the concert-room. 



Thirty Years of 



"If Birmingham had its Mendelssohn, Norwich 
had its Spohr." This pardonable boast, familiar 
enough to my boyish ears, had reference to the visit 
paid by Louis Spohr to Norwich in 1839 (when he 
conducted his oratorio " Calvary " and played a 
couple of his violin works), and also to the fact that 
he had expressly composed his oratorio * ' The Fall 
of Babylon'' for the festival of 1842. 1 Some thir- 
teen years later an effort was made to persuade the 
Cassel composer to provide another novelty, and 
my father was requested by the Festival Committee 
to carry on the German correspondence with him. 
Spohr undertook the task, and promised to com- 
plete a new work for the festival of 1857. But at 
that time his powers were beginning to decline, and 
he plainly declared himself no longer satisfied with 
what he wrote; while the accident which at that 
time broke his arm fairly precluded all question of 
further progress with the work. Two years later 
he died. 



1 It is interesting to recall that a section of the Norwich clergy 
raised a tremendous outcry against the performance in the con- 
cert-room of ' ' Calvary, ' ' on account of the nature of the libretto. 
It was declared to be pure sacrilege thus to perform a musical 
illustration of the events of the Crucifixion. Nevertheless, the 
oratorio was duly given under Spohr 's direction, and was received 
with great enthusiasm. In London, in 1847, the same opposition 
arose when a series of Spohr 'a works was announced by the Sa- 
cred Harmonic Society. This time it proved successful, for at 
the last moment "Calvary" was omitted and "The Fall of 
Babylon " given in its place. Thirty-five years later, when 
Gounod's * ' Eedemption " was produced at Birmingham, the 
British public was not quite so squeamish. 

10 



Musical Life in London 



ONE of the proudest moments that I can recall 
in my early Norwich life was my being presented 
to Mr. (afterward Sir) Julius Benedict, who of- 
ficiated as conductor of the festivals from 1842 
until 1878, when he was succeeded by the present 
conductor, Mr. Alberto Randegger. By the light 
of subsequent experience, I learned to realize that 
Benedict was one of the worst conductors who ever 
held a baton. His head was invariably buried in 
his score; his arms were ever uplifted, as though 
seeking a higher level than the shoulder- joints 
naturally permitted. He rarely gave a cue until it 
was too late to be of practical value ; and he entirely 
lacked the magnetic power and the sense of en- 
semble that should be the primary gifts of a good 
conductor. But at the time I am speaking of these 
deficiencies were noted only by the few. The vast 
majority of East Anglian amateurs, including my 
youthful self, were satisfied to look upon Sir Julius 
not only as a great conductor, but as a musician 
whose cooperation brought honor and glory to the 
festival. Was he not the favorite pupil and friend 
of Weber? Had he not, when a young man of 
twenty-three, seen and shaken hands with the im- 
mortal Beethoven? 

I have been introduced to Verdi and Gounod; I 
have known and spoken with Wagner; but, great 
as those privileges undoubtedly were, I do not 
think they aroused in me the same feelings of 
mingled pride and awe that I experienced when, 
as a boy, I was first addressed by a man who had 

13 



Thirty Years of 



stood face to face with Beethoven. In his biog- 
raphy of Weber, Sir Julius Benedict describes in 
glowing language how he met the great composer 
at his publishers' in Vienna, and expresses the 
great joy and surprise that he felt when Beethoven 
"actually condescended " to speak with him. He 
adds: 

I see him yet before me, and who could ever forget 
those striking features? The lofty, vaulted forehead 
with thick gray and white hair encircling it in the most 
picturesque disorder, that square lion's nose, that broad 
chin, that noble and soft mouth. Over the cheeks, seamed 
with scars from the smallpox, was spread a high color. 
From under the bushy, closely compressed eyebrows 
flashed a pair of piercing eyes; his thick-set Cyclopean 
figure told of a powerful frame. He approached me 
with his inseparable tablet in his hand, and in his usual 
brusque manner addressed me: ''You are Weber's pu- 
pil?" I gave an affirmative nod. "Why doesn't he 
come to see me? Tell him to come to Baden with Has- 
linger," pointing to Steiner's partner. Asking for his 
tablet, I wrote in it, "May I come too?" He smiled, 
replying, "Ja, kleiner naseweis" (Yes, you saucy little 
fellow). 

And then follows an account of the visit, too 
lengthy for quotation here. 

It was at the suggestion of Malibran that Bene- 
dict left Paris and went to England in 1835. He 
quickly made his mark as an operatic composer, 
and successfully competed with Michael Balfe and 

14 



Musical Life in London 



Vincent Wallace in the race for fame. Like them, 
he wrote and produced many operas; like them, 
he left only one that really promises to survive. 
Indeed, Benedict's "Lily of Killarney" is the sole 
English opera of the so-called "ballad" type that 
still shares popularity with "The Bohemian Girl" 
and "Maritana." Although such a mediocre con- 
ductor, he was an admirable accompanist. He had 
studied under Hummel at Weimar before going to 
Weber, and was a quite capable pianist. His repu- 
tation in this capacity was not a little enhanced by 
his association with Jenny Lind on her memorable 
tour in the United States (1850-52). At any rate, 
after his return to London his services "at the 
piano" were in request at every kind of musical 
function, and he was practically the sole accom- 
panist employed at the Monday Popular Concerts 
during the first twenty years of their existence. 

When I first made Benedict's acquaintance he 
was not far short of seventy. Still a hale old man 
and a wonderfully hard worker, his eyes were nev- 
ertheless beginning to give him trouble, and, when 
conducting, the distance between his head and 
the score was growing shorter and shorter. He 
was much upset by the financial failure of the Nor- 
wich festival of 1869 and the comparatively poor 
results achieved in 1872 and 1875. The latter was 
the first of these meetings at which I performed the 
functions of a musical critic, a,s the representative 
of my uncle's newspaper, the "Norwich Argus." 
When it was over, Sir Julius asked me to come and 

15 



Thirty Years of 



see him, in order to talk over a series of articles pro- 
posing some radical modifications in the festival 
management. These I wrote, and they duly ap- 
peared in the " Argus," and certain of the sugges- 
tions were carried out with good effect at the fes- 
tival of 1878. But, as it turned out, that was the 
last of the Norwich festivals that Benedict was to 
direct. He shortly afterward underwent an opera- 
tion for cataract, and then married again! To 
add to his troubles, he incurred severe losses in a 
provincial operatic speculation with the then im- 
presario of Covent Garden, the late Frederic Gye. 
He gradually relinquished all public work, and 
died in June, 1885, at the ripe age of eighty-one. 

Among the great prime donne who sang in Nor- 
wich during the "sixties" and "seventies," none 
was more deservedly popular than Theresa Tiet- 
jens. Those of my American readers who saw her 
when she appeared with Mr. Mapleson's troupe at 
the Academy of Music, New York, in 1876, cannot 
fail to have a vivid recollection of her genius 
both as a singer and an actress. Then, however, 
she was just approaching the tragical climax of 
her brilliant career. When I first heard her, at 
one of the general rehearsals for the festival of 
1866 (some eight years after her debut in England), 
her voice was not only fresh, powerful, and pene- 
trating, but it possessed in a greater degree than 
then that sympathetic charm that curiously dra- 
matic "human" quality which was perhaps its 
most notable attribute. 

16 




From a photograph by Elliott & Fry, London 

TIETJENS 
AS LUCREZIA BORGIA 



Musical Life in London 



Her style was marked by the same rare individ- 
uality. Her phrasing offered a curious blending 
of vigor and grace ; and she had a trick of employ- 
ing the portamento when approaching a high note, 
which in any other singer might have been thought 
almost ugly, but in Tietjens seemed both natural 
and artistic. At the same time, her attack was 
superb. Never have I heard the opening phrase 
of the ' ' Inflammatus ' ' in Rossini 's * ' Stabat Mater ' ' 
delivered with such magnificent energy and such 
absolute purity of tone. To hear Tietjens in those 
days sing "Let the bright Seraphim" (especially 
to the trumpet obbligato of Tom Harper) was a 
treat never to be forgotten. 

Theresa Tietjens was one of the few leading 
sopranos of her time (Adelina Patti was also one; 
Emma Albani, another) who could be regarded as 
equally distinguished interpreters of oratorio and 
opera. If Lemmens-Sherrington, being a born 
Englishwoman, could claim to be the legitimate 
successor of Clara Novello, the position of the dra- 
matic "star" of oratorio was no less truly shared 
by Rudersdorff and Tietjens, until the former took 
up her residence in the United States (1872), leav- 
ing her friend and rival to reign supreme. Hear- 
ing Tietjens as I did in oratorio, then, some years 
before I knew her in opera, I was enabled to judge 
even more accurately of the wonderful effect that 
resulted from the combination of her histrionic 
and vocal powers. On the stage she was a trage- 
dienne in the highest sense of the term. The op- 



Thirty Years of 



portunity of arriving at that conclusion was af- 
forded me by the artist herself when I was in my 
sixteenth year. And the memory of her glorious 
impersonation, on that occasion, of Valentine ("I^es 
Huguenots") has never faded, notwithstanding 
the profound impression subsequently created by 
her embodiments of Lucrezia Borgia, Norma, 
Medea, Donna Anna, Semir amide, Countess Alma- 
viva, Ortrud (one of her later efforts), and, per- 
haps greatest of all, Leonora in "Fidelio." 

I witnessed two of her performances as Lucrezia 
Borgia which deserve special mention. The first 
of these (May 4, 1872) took place at Drury Lane, 
and was remarkable not only for the exceptional 
beauty and grandeur of Tietjens's assumption, but 
because on that night Italo Campanini made his 
debut in London as Gennaro, and was forthwith 
hailed (somewhat prematurely, however) as the 
successor of Mario and Giuglini. The cast further 
included Faure as the Duke and the ever-delightful 
Zelia Trebelli as Maffio Orsini, while Sir Michael 
Costa was the conductor. That was a night of 
triumphs. 

The other representation (Her Majesty's Thea- 
tre, May 19, 1877) is fraught with sad memories 
and undying admiration for a courageous woman 
and a true artist. It had been known for some time 
that Theresa Tietjens was suffering from cancer; 
and, after much hesitation, the doctors decided to 
perform an operation before the end of May. 
"Luerezia" was announced for the 19th, and 
among the prima donna 's friends it was pretty well 

20 



Musical Life in London 



understood that this would be her last appearance 
before the operation was performed. 

When the day arrived Tietjens was far too ill 
to be really fit to sing. It was distinctly against 
her medical advisers' wish that she insisted upon 
keeping faith with her manager and the public 
a practice that she had persistently adhered to 
throughout her career. How she contrived to get 
through the opera I shall never understand. It can 
only be compared to some splendid example of 
martyrdom. She fainted after each of the acts, 
but immediately on recovering consciousness de- 
cided to proceed with the performance. Never so 
much as a look or gesture betrayed to her audience 
the mortal anguish she was suffering. Only the 
initiated knew how much of reality there was in 
the terrible scream of agony uttered by Lucrezia 
in the final scene when she perceives that her son 
is dead. As it rang through the house the audience 
shuddered. Yet the brave artist would not shirk 
her fall at the end. What it cost her could be 
guessed, however, from the fact that after the cur- 
tain had been twice raised in response to rapturous 
plaudits, she still lay motionless upon the ground. 
She had once more become insensible. 

In the following week the operation was per- 
formed, but the case was hopeless, and on October 
3, 1877, Theresa Tietjens breathed her last. She 
was laid to rest at Kensal Green Cemetery, in the 
presence of a vast crowd, amid tokens of public 
grief such as no foreign artist before her had ever 
been vouchsafed on English soil. 

21 



CHAPTER II 

Youthful work and experiences in London My brother Max- 
French refugees of 1871 Alboni Joseph Joachim James 
Davison and the " Pops" Manuel Garcia, teacher and friend 
The great master's method His sister Malibran. 

MY real musical life in London began in 1874. 
Down to that year my parents had never 
contemplated my entering upon a musical or even 
a journalistic career. When they left Norwich in 
1866 and went to reside in the metropolis, I re- 
mained behind in the care of my grandparents and 
did not rejoin them until nearly three years later. 
Meanwhile my younger brother, Max, had shown 
considerable aptitude for the violin, and was taking 
lessons from Louis Ries, the well-known " second 
violin " of the Monday "Pops." Afterward he 
studied under the late J. T. Carrodus, and joined 
the orchestra of the Royal Italian Opera, Covent 
Garden, of which Carrodus was for many years 
the chef-d'attaqiie. 1 I used to play Max's accom- 

1 Subsequently my brother went to America to become a mem- 
ber of the well-known Mendelssohn Quintet Club. For three 
seasons he was principal second violin of the Boston Symphony 
Orchestra, under Gericke and Henschel. In 1888 he accompanied 
Dr. F. H. Cowen to Melbourne as leader of the Centennial Ex- 
hibition Orchestra, and resided in that city until 1891. His 
health beginning to fail, he returned to Europe and for a time 
resumed his place in the principal London orchestras. He died 
at Cairo in 1894. 

22 




From an original painting by Ethel Wright 

HERMANN KLEIN 



Musical Life in London 



paniments in the family circle; and it was solely 
the fraternal spirit of emulation, impelling me to 
try to shine side by side with my younger brother, 
that led me to keep up my study of music. 

The terrors of the Franco-Prussian war (1870- 
1871) drove to London large numbers of refu- 
gees, many of them celebrities connected with the 
leading musical and dramatic institutions of Paris. 
Not a few of these were compelled to " bring grist 
to the mill" by appearing upon the stage and in 
the concert-rooms of the British capital. It was a 
golden opportunity for hearing and seeing some of 
the finest artists of the day ; and, thanks mainly to 
the friendly intercourse existing between my pa- 
rents and certain magnates of the managerial 
world, I was enabled to enjoy in an exceptional de- 
gree the privileges of this "chance of a lifetime." 
Not least of these managers was the famous John 
Mitchell, of Old Bond Street, the mainstay of the 
opera, who first introduced the "French Plays" in 
London, and taught English audiences to under- 
stand and appreciate the consummate art of their 
neighbors across the Channel. 

Then it was that I went to Covent Garden and 
heard for the first time Adelina Patti, Pauline 
Lucca, Scalchi, Tamberlik, Mario, Bettini, Faure, 
Cotogni, Tagliafico; or, at Her Majesty's, Chris- 
tine Nilsson, Tietjens, Trebelli, Marimon, lima 
di Murska, Mongini, Gardoni, Capoul, Wachtel, 
Agnesi, Eota, Santley, Foli, Carl Formes. Then 
it was that in the concert-room I listened to the 

25. 



Thirty Years of 



still marvelous voices of Alboni, Carlotta Patti, 
and Sims Reeves; heard delightedly the glorious 
playing of such violinists as Sivori, Vieuxtemps, 
Wieniawski, Neruda, and Joachim ; and reveled in 
the never-to-be-forgotten art of Clara Schumann 
and Alfredo Piatti. Looking back after thirty 
years, and with every wish to avoid the objection- 
able manner of the laudator temporis acii, it seems 
to me that that was a veritable "age of giants, " a 
period of artistic constellations which, as far as 
London at least is concerned, has never since been 
approached. 

Among the most interesting of the French refu- 
gees of 1871 were the members of the Comedie 
Franchise. They gave a memorable series of 
representations at one of the London theatres, se- 
lecting for it most of the gems of their matchless 
repertoire, with casts that included such artists as 
Got, Delauny, Mounet-Sully, Worms, Febvre, the 
Coquelins, Mmes. Sarah Bernhardt, Blanche Pier- 
son, Bartet, Barretta, Keichemberg, and Samary. 
If I am not mistaken, it was during this season that 
Sarah Bernhardt made her London debut. I saw 
her for the first time in her exquisite embodiment 
of Dona Sol in Victor Hugo's "Hernani." My 
father, who saw her in "Andromaque" and 
"Phedre," told me that he considered her little, 
if aught, inferior to the celebrated Rachel, whose 
triumphs he had often witnessed in Paris during 
the "forties/' 

Sarah Bernhardt at this period of her career re- 

26 



Musical Life in London 



vealed the fire of genius more completely as an 
exponent of classical tragedy than in modern roles. 
In the latter she had then to contend with two 
very distinguished rivals, Mme. Fargueil and Mile. 
Aimee Desclee, both of whom had already played 
in London under John Mitchell's management. I 
remember how delightful Fargueil was at the St. 
James's Theatre in the plays of Alexandre Dumas 
fils; while the Camille and the Frou-Frou of Aimee 
Desclee (the latter her original creation) have 
never been surpassed. In later years, however, 
Sarah Bernhardt proved that she had grasped the 
exquisite art of these gifted women as surely as she 
had inherited the mantle of Rachel. And for this 
reason I am inclined to regard her as the great- 
est "all-round" actress that the world has ever 
known. 

Marietta Alboni, Contessa di Pepoli, the most 
famous contralto of the nineteenth century, was 
another of the unwilling exiles who found a home 
in London in 1871. I then heard her sing on two 
occasions. The first time was in the "Messe 
Solennelle" of her beloved teacher and friend, 
Rossini, which the master had rescored for full 
orchestra some four years previous, in fact, only 
a few months before he died. 1 Thirteen years had 

*At Eossini's funeral in Paris (November 21, 1868) the prin- 
cipal musical feature was the singing of the duet "Quis est 
homo/' from his "Stabat Mater," by Adelina Patti and Alboni. 
M. Gustave Choquet remarks (Grove's Dictionary, Vol. Ill) : "To 
hear that beautiful music rendered by two such voices, and in 
the presence of such artists, over the grave of the composer, was 

27 



Thirty Years of 



elapsed since Alboni was last heard in London, 
and some time since she had retired from the stage 
altogether. Even then she was only in her forty- 
ninth year, and, despite her unusual stoutness, her 
tones retained well-nigh all their pristine charm 
of quality and organ-like richness of volume. What 
a magnificent voice it was ! How marvelous for 
a pure contralto its evenness and range! Mr. 
Julian Marshall, in his article on Alboni in Grove's 
Dictionary, describes her compass as "fully two 
octaves, from G to G." To be correct, he should 
have added quite another half-octave to the head 
register and nearly as much below ; for Alboni sang 
with perfect ease to the upper C, and could descend 
when she pleased to the middle space of the bass 
clef altogether a scale extending not far short of 
three octaves ! The purity and fluency of her style 
were indescribable. She was one of the last great 
exemplars of the old Italian school. 

The second time I heard Alboni was at a concert 
given in a private house in Welbeck Street, Cav- 
endish Square, by Alessandro Eomili, a young 
Italian who, prior to the war, had acted as ac- 
companist in Paris to the well-known singer and 
teacher Delle Sedie. I recollect how perfectly she 
sang some French pieces and a new romanza ("II 
primo amore," I think it was called) expressly 

to feel in the truest sense the genius of Eossini, and the part 
which he has played in the music of the nineteenth century." 
The artists referred to were a group of some eighteen fa- 
mous singers who, on the same occasion, took part with the 
pupils of the Conservatoire in the " Prayer" from "Moi'se. " 

28 




From a photograph by Disderi, now in the collection of Evert Jansen Wendell 

ALBONI 



Musical Life in London 



composed for her by Romili. But what dwells 
most vividly in my memory in connection with this 
concert is her extreme kindness to my brother Max, 
who was down in the same programme for a violin 
solo. The great artist insisted on sitting among 
the audience to listen to the little English fiddler 
(then about thirteen) ; and he had just started 
his solo when one of his strings broke. He gave 
one glance of consternation round the room and 
then incontinently burst into tears. The audience 
looked half amused ; but Alboni rose from her seat, 
walked to my brother, and, kissing him upon the 
forehead, said, loudly enough for every one to hear, 
"N'importe, mon petit ami; ne pleurs pas! Get 
accident-la aurait pu arriver a Sivori lui-meme ! ' n 
Whereupon the boy dried his tears, mended his 
string, and went through his solo with entire 
success. 

In the spring of the following year (1872) Max 
obtained a letter of introduction to Joseph 
Joachim. An appointment was made, and one 
morning we found ourselves in the presence of 
the "king of violinists " at the house of his late 
brother, Henry Joachim, with whom he always re- 
sided when s.taying in London. I do not know 
which of us was the more nervous, Max or myself 
(I was there as his accompanist) ; but I do know 
that he utterly failed to do himself justice. After 
he had played a page or two of one of Rode 's con- 

1 "Never mind, my little friend; don't cry! That accident 
could have happened to Sivori himself ! ' ' 

3 1 



Thirty Years of 



certos, Herr Joachim stopped him and asked 
whether he intended making " fiddling " his pro- 
fession. "Yes," meekly replied my brother. 
"Well, in that case," continued the great man, in 
not unkindly tones, "I don't think you need play 
to me any more for the present. You have still a 
great deal to do, apart from learning how to hold 
your violin properly, and how to keep your elbow 
to your side when you draw your bow across the 
strings. But you have talent. When you have 
studied hard for another year or two, I shall be 
glad to hear you play again." After which, he 
came to see us out at the front door, and we left 
the house in a not altogether enviable frame of 
mind. Of myself he barely took any notice; but 
six years later we were destined to meet under 
more favorable circumstances, and to begin a 
friendship which, I am proud to say, has endured 
without break down to the present time. 

It was during this particular decade that the 
unique powers of Joseph Joachim reached their 
prime. I had now become a regular attendant 
at the "Pops," and it was often my privilege to 
sit there beside my lamented friend James W. Da- 
vison, the critic of the ' l Times ' ' and proprietor of 
the "Musical World" ; the man who helped Arthur 
Chappell to establish those famous concerts, and 
who for twenty years or more wrote the analytical 
programmes which constituted one of their most 
important educational features. One Saturday af- 
ternoon I was sitting by Davison's side as a glori- 

3 2 



Musical Life in London 



ous treat was nearing its close. Joachim had with 
marvelous fire led one of the "Rasoumowsky" 
quartets; he had played the Bach "Chaconne" 
as he alone in the world could play it; and now 
he was taking part in Schumann's noble pianoforte 
quintet, with Mme. Schumann, Louis Kies, Lud- 
wig Straus, and Piatti for his companions. 

Just before the finale, the old critic turned to 
me and said in his abrupt, characteristic way : ' ' My 
boy, mind you mark this day with a red letter ! I 
have known Joachim ever since he made his debut 
here as a lad of thirteen, under Mendelssohn, at 
the Philharmonic in '44 [about thirty years pre- 
vious], but never have I heard him play as he 
has played this afternoon. From first to last he 
has been like one inspired." The writer of these 
recollections took up the record for the five and 
twenty years that were to follow. Still the grand 
old violinist came regularly to London, after his 
former associates one by one had dropped "out 
of the running"; 1 and still he continued to play 

1 Mr. Bies is the sole surviving member of the original Monday 
"Pop" Quartet. Of the artists named above Dr. Joachim is hap- 
pily still living; but 'he no longer appears at these concerts. 
Mme. Schumann died in 1896, Mr. Ludwig Straus in 1899, and 
Signer Piatti in 1901. When Mr. Eies retired in 1897, I received 
from him the following letter: "DEAR MR. KLEIN: I gave my- 
self the pleasure of calling upon you to-day, but was not fortunate 
enough to find you at home, and therefore write these few lines, 
telling you what perhaps you may have heard already that I 
have this season resigned my post at the Popular Concerts, after 
holding it for thirty-nine years! So I say 'LebewohP to you 
as a public man, and thank you for all the kindness you have 

33 



Thirty Years of 



season after season, with all the supreme art of 
yore. Yet never again at any given moment did 
the absolute inspiration of that afternoon seem to 
return to him in its full glory. Davison was right. 
It marked the very apex of Joachim's career. 

In the spring of 1874 there occurred an event 
which was destined to exercise an important influ- 
ence upon my career. Manuel Garcia, the great 
teacher of singing, came to live under my parents' 
roof. We occupied a large house at the corner of 
Bentinck Street and Welbeck Street, Cavendish 
Square, then, as now, the recognized fashionable 
quarter for London professional people, and 
Signor Garcia 1 took the entire ground floor for his 
' ' studio*' ' and dwelling apartments. 

I should like to describe the brother of Malibran 
and Pauline Viardot as he was at that time. He 
had just entered upon his seventieth year, but in 
appearance and bearing he did not seem much past 
fifty. He had a light, buoyant step, always walked 
quickly, and had a keen, observant eye, which, when 
he spoke, would light up with all the fire and ani- 
mation of youth. His dark complexion and his 
habit of rapid gesticulation bespoke his Southern 

shown me. I shall now be amongst the audience at the "Pops, " 
where I hope to have the pleasure of meeting you sometimes. 
With kind regards, Yours sincerely, Louis ElES. September 30, 
1897. " 

J In virtue of Garcia 's Spanish birth and descent, the prefix 
"Seiior" is frequently used. But in London, where he settled 
down in 1850, he is always spoken of as "Signor" Garcia, and 
is so described in the archives of the Royal Academy of Music 
and other institutions to which he was attached as a professor. 

34 



Musical Life in London 



origin ; and although equally at home in Spanish, 
Italian, French, and English, he always betrayed 
a decided preference for conversing in the French 
language. His modesty was remarkable. He 
could rarely be induced to talk about himself; but 
in his opinions he was firm almost to obstinacy, 
and a prejudice once formed was as difficult to re- 
move as a liking. In argument he was a close rea- 
soner, and would be either a doughty opponent or 
a warm advocate. The middle line never attracted 
him. But at all times he was a true, stanch, and 
loyal friend. 

Fortunately, Signor Garcia took a considerable 
fancy to me. He was fond of discussing politics, 
but, having little time to read the papers, would 
generally ask me for the latest news. He openly 
expressed his disgust with the policy of the Liberal 
Government of that day, and found in myself a 
sympathetic supporter of his views. About music 
I was afraid for a long while to talk with him. 
One day, however, he heard me singing in a dis- 
tant part of the house, and told my mother that I 
had a very agreeable light tenor voice. She at 
once asked him if he would be good enough to 
give me some instruction. He readily consented, 
and, within an hour, to my intense delight, I found 
myself taking my first lesson from Manuel Garcia. 

The master was then in his prime. For forty 
years his pupils, from Jenny Lind down, had in- 
cluded some of the best singers that Paris and 
London provided, while among the many aspir- 

35 



Thirty Years of 



ants for vocal fame who came to study with him 
at our house in Bentinck Street were several whose 
names yet enjoy a universal reputation. During 
the eight or ten years that he lived with us, I studied 
with him for nearly four, and heard him give many 
scores of lessons beside those which I received. 
To see and hear Garcia teach was ever a source 
of unqualified pleasure. Even when annoyed by 
a pupil's lack of ordinary intelligence, he seldom 
became abrupt or impatient ; and he never worried 
or confused the student with technicalities not 
actually essential to the accurate understanding 
of his method. His voice had virtually gone, but 
he would liberally employ its beaux restes to im- 
part he idea for the proper emission of a note or 
the phrasing of a passage. As often as not, the 
sounds that he produced would be positively ugly ; 
but they never failed to convey the desired sug- 
gestion, and, though his own voice might tremble 
with sheer weight of years, he never, to my know- 
ledge, brought out a pupil whose tones were 
marred by the slightest shade of vibrato. 

Nor was he at any time guilty of the sin of 
"forcing" a voice. I say so with all possible em- 
phasis, because that untrue assertion has been 
made on various occasions, and it should be con- 
tradicted as a libel upon a teacher whose first rule 
was ever to repress the breathing power and bring 
it into proper proportion with the resisting force 
of the throat and larynx. The contrary proceed- 
ing would have been altogether inconsistent with 

36 



Musical Life in London 



the system of the old Italian school, whereof 
Garcia is the last really great teacher. 

No less stupid, but rather more cruel, has been 
the recent onslaught emanating principally from 
Paris upon the act of vocal mechanism known as 
the coup de la glotte, a term created by Garcia as 
the result of his observations on the interior of the 
larynx with the aid of the laryngoscope, of which 
instrument he was the inventor. This term, first 
employed in his wonderful "Traite complet de 
PArt du Chant," 1 was merely meant to describe 
the movement or "stroke" of the glottis in the act 
of attacking a vocal sound a movement as natural 
as it is indispensable to the clean, definite striking 
of a note by the human voice. Possibly the prac- 
tice of the act in question has been worked to ex- 
cess by would-be imitators of Garcia 's method ; but 
certainly it was never so taught by him, and I have 
never come across one of his pupils who had suf- 
fered through its normal employment. Later on, 
however, I shall have to refer to this subject again, 
in order to quote in their proper place some words 
used by the master to refute a particularly flagrant 
attack upon the coup de la glotte. 

I was barely twenty-two when I ceased taking 
lessons from Signor Garcia. Our relations by that 
time were those of very close friends. We used 
to chat freely upon musical as well as other topics, 
and I loved to ' ' draw him out ' ' upon the respective 

1 Published in Paris, 1847, and afterward translated into Italian, 
German, and English. 

37 



Thirty Years of 



merits of the great Italian singers of bygone years. 
I think his chief object of admiration was the cele- 
brated Pasta, who lived the most brilliant portion 
of her career in Paris during his own residence 
there. 1 He would often speak of the ravishing 
beauty of her voice, the perfection of her fiorituri, 
and the grandeur of her dramatic conceptions. Yet 
in his inmost heart, I fancy, his famous sister, Mali- 
bran, reigned supreme. She was his junior by 
three years, but at the period here referred to had 
achieved triumphs unsurpassed by any singer of 
her time, and yet she had been dead and buried 
some forty years! He would describe her as the 
most natural genius he had ever encountered, and 
also the most precocious. A great deal that has 
been related concerning her is purely imaginary; 
but one perfectly true story is that of an incident 
which happened at Naples one night when, a little 
girl of five, she was playing the part of the child 
in Paer's masterpiece, "Agnese." 

In this opera there occurs a scene where a hus- 

1 Giuditta Pasta was one of the greatest Bossinian sopranos 
of her time, besides being a superb emotional actress. She pos- 
sessed a voice of immense range and power, and a remarkably 
impressive stage presence. She was born in 1798, made her debut 
in 1815, and died in 1865. 

Curiously enough, it was when acting as a substitute for Pasta 
that Garcia 's elder sister, Malibran, in 1824, made her first ap- 
pearance on any stage at the King's Theatre, London, as Rosina 
in "II Barbiere. " She was then sixteen. In the following year 
the whole Garcia family went to America, where they met with 
immense success, producing no less than eleven new operas during 
their first year in New York. 



Musical Life in London 



band and wife, who have quarreled, are reunited 
through the agency of their little daughter. The 
tiny Malibran had attended all the rehearsals, and 
so extraordinary was her memory that she knew 
the whole opera by heart. On the night of the 
performance, the prima donna, in the episode 
above mentioned, either forgot her part or hesi- 
tated a moment, when, lo ! the little girl by her side 
instantly took up the melody and sang out with 
such vigor and resonance that the entire house 
heard her. The prima donna was about to inter- 
fere when the audience shouted, "Brava! Don't 
stop her. Let the child go on!" And go on the 
child did, until she had sung through the entire 
scene, amid an exhibition of true Italian enthu- 
siasm. 

How strange it seems when one reflects that the 
venerable maestro who narrated to me this incident, 
which he witnessed as a boy of eight, is still alive 
and enjoying good health, and in full possession of 
his faculties and his wonderful spirits ! He resides 
with Mme. Garcia (his second wife) and their 
two daughters at Cricklewood, one of the north- 
western suburbs of London. What happened yes- 
terday he does not always precisely remember ; but 
the events of nearly a century ago he never forgets. 
On March 17, 1904, all being well, Manuel Garcia 
will be ninety-nine years of age ! 



4 1 



CHAPTER III 

Start of journalistic career A musical critic at twenty 
"Lohengrin " in London Carl Rosa His memorable season 
at the Princess's Revival of English Opera Early days of 
"interviewing" Sir Michael Costa August Manns and 
cheap orchestral music Jean de Reszke's barytone debut. 

NEVER having seriously contemplated becom- 
ing a public singer, it was no great disap- 
pointment when I found, after a couple of years' 
study, that my voice gave no signs of developing 
to proportions requisite for a stage career. Aut 
Caesar, aut nullus! I would either be an operatic 
tenor or I would be content to be simply a good 
amateur. The concert-room had no charms for 
me. Nevertheless, while continuing my lessons 
regularly with Signor Garcia, I had also to con- 
sider the best means for earning a livelihood ; and, 
as I have previously hinted, the opportunity pre- 
sented itself in a highly congenial direction that 
of musical journalism. The work was calculated 
to aid rather than impede my studies. It lay in 
a field which, at the time I speak of, was far less 
overrun than now, and it afforded me an entree 
to every kind of musical performance, which in 
itself was a liberal education for a young man with 
my instincts and training. 

42 



Musical Life in London 



I commenced active work as a journalist, then, 
in 1875, as London correspondent of my uncle 's 
paper, the "Norwich Argus. " In 1877 I undertook 
the direction of a publication called the * l Operatic 
and Dramatic Album, ' ' the duties of which brought 
me into personal contact with some of the foremost 
personages in the lyric and theatrical worlds. A 
year later I was appointed musical and dramatic 
critic of the "Citizen," which post (during 1879 
and part of 1880) I filled while acting as musical 
critic upon the staff of that fine old weekly paper 
long since defunct the ' ' Examiner. ' ' Such, briefly 
told, is the history of my first five years ' connection 
with London journalism. 

Two memorable events occurred in 1875. One 
was the first production in London of Wagner's 
"Lohengrin"; the other, the first appearance there 
of the Carl Rosa Opera Company. The former was 
regarded almost in the light of an experiment. 
Never before had an opera by Wagner been per- 
formed at Covent Garden. In 1870 his "Fliegende 
Hollander" had been given at Drury Lane, under 
the Italian title of "L'Ollandese Dannato" (Luigi 
Arditi conducting), but without any very marked 
success. And now here was "Lohengrin," a more 
advanced example of the composer 's method, about 
to claim the suffrages of a public still notoriously 
unprepared for the comprehension or enjoyment 
of what was generally described as the "music of 
the future." Yet, thanks to the growing numbers 
of the German community, the event aroused in- 

43 



Thirty Years of 



tense excitement, and the opera-house was packed 
to overflowing. I think it was the worst perform- 
ance of " Lohengrin " ever seen in an important 
theatre. Albani (then in her third season) made 
a sympathetic Elsa; Nicolini presented a heroic- 
looking Lohengrin and sang wonderfully well, con- 
sidering how completely out of his element he was 
in Wagnerian opera ; and Cotogni did creditably as 
Telramund. But the remainder of the cast were 
beneath notice, while the chorus sang dreadfully 
out of tune, and the orchestra, under Vianesi, did 
its best to drown the singers throughout. 

Yet, in spite of these drawbacks, the beauty of 
the music exercised its inevitably powerful sway, 
and the opera was received with a warmth that 
grew and grew till it culminated in a tremendous 
climax of enthusiasm. The n tooth-and-naiP ' op- 
ponents of Wagner, who flourished exceedingly in 
London at this time, were simply dumf ounded. In 
all probability, " Lohengrin " was as new to them 
as it was to Co vent Garden habitues, and they did 
not know whether to be more astonished at the 
subtle fascination of the music or at the ease 
with which its charm and significance had been 
grasped by an " unripe ' ' public. In vain did James 
Davison print Cassandra-like utterances in the 
" Times' '; equally in vain did my dear and val- 
ued friend Joseph Bennett limit himself to luke- 
warm admiration in the columns of the "Tele- 
graph." The success of "Lohengrin" in London 
was complete. So great was the demand to hear 

44 



Musical Life in London 



the opera that within a comparatively brief space 
Mr. Mapleson had mounted it at Her Majesty's 
with a cast including Christine Nilsson, Tietjens, 
Campanini, and Galassi. On the whole, that was 
perhaps the more satisfactory production of the 
two, albeit I fancy Sir Michael Costa penetrated 
very little further into the meaning and spirit of 
Wagner's score than did his worthy countryman, 
Signor Vianesi. His chief interest used to centre 
in the proceedings of the swan, of which he inva- 
riably spoke contemptuously as "Dat goose!" 

When Carl Rosa first brought his troupe to the 
Princess's Theatre, London, in September, 1875, 
English opera was in a bad way. I am not pre- 
pared to assert that it is in a much better way at 
the present moment. Beyond doubt, however, its 
fortunes, through the instrumentality of this la- 
mented impresario, underwent a revival that was 
of the utmost importance, not merely in its influ- 
ence upon the popularity of opera in the vernacu- 
lar, but in its effect, as a purely educational factor, 
upon the subsequent course of operatic enterprise 
both in England and America. How this latter 
process came about I shall show later on. Mean- 
while let it be said that Carl Rosa was the man 
who first sounded the knell of "ballad-opera" as 
a staple form of amusement, and lifted the taste 
of the British public from its then commonplace 
level to a plane more closely approaching that of 
the cultivated audiences of Germany, Austria, and 
France. 

47 



Thirty Years of 



No one could have been better fitted for the task. 
Rosa was a little over thirty, energetic and indus- 
trious to a fault, an accomplished musician, 1 an ex- 
cellent conductor, and an experienced operatic 
manager. His first wife, the gifted Mme. Parepa- 
Kosa (whom he met and married in New York 
in 1867), was the leading artist of the opera 
company, which for several years achieved such 
great success under their joint direction in the 
United States. They had returned to London in 
1873 with the intention of producing l ' Lohengrin ' ' 
in English at Drury Lane, but that project was 
abandoned in consequence of the death of Mme. 
Parepa. The prima donna had been an intimate 
friend of my cousin Mrs. J. M. Johnson, and it 
was at the latter 's house on Maida Hill that I first 
became acquainted with Carl Eosa. I met him 
there one afternoon while his memorable season 
at the Princess's was in progress. He had just 
finished a long rehearsal and still had to conduct 
the evening performance; but I remember being 
much struck by his rare spirits and the irrepressible 
energy with which he threw himself into an argu- 
ment upon the subject of English musical taste. 

"You are surprised," he said, "because they are 
crowding the house for * Figaro' and the 'Water- 
Carrier,' and you fancy it must be Santley that 
is the draw and not the operas. But don't deceive 
yourselves. This London public is now ripe for 

1 Carl Eosa came to England first as a solo violinist, and made his 
d6but under August Manns at the Crystal Palace in 1866. 

48 



Musical Life in London 



English opera of a better sort than Pyne and Har- 
rison provided. It longs for something more than 
ballad-operas and a 'star' or two. It wants good 
works and, above all, a good ensemble. See how 
it appreciates the ' Figaro ' ensemble! 1 Well, next 
season I shall produce more unfamiliar operas and 
a still stronger company. Then gradually I shall 
introduce Wagner in English, beginning with ' The 
Flying Dutchman, ' and perhaps even test whether 
London can stand a brand-new opera by a native 
composer." 

He was as good as his word. In the following 
year, at the Lyceum, Carl Eosa brought out four 
novelties, including Frederic H. Cowen's " Pau- 
line " (a version of "The Lady of Lyons") and 
Wagner 's "Flying Dutchman." The latter, with 
Santley in the title-role, made a tremendous hit. 
Coming on top of the success of "Lohengrin" 
and "Tannhauser" (the latter had been produced 
in Italian at Co vent Garden just four months pre- 
vious), it helped to complete the foundation for 
the love and understanding of Wagner's music 
which now extend throughout the United King- 

1 The fine performance of Mozart 'a ' ' Marriage of Figaro ' ' 
with which Carl Eosa opened his memorable campaign at the 
Princess's Theatre, London, on September 11, 1875, has always 
been referred to with pride as the best ever given in the English 
language. Certainly I, for one, never heard a finer. The cast 
included Santley as Figaro, Campobello (an Italianized Scotch- 
man) as the Count, Aynsley Cook as Bartolo, Charles Lyall as 
Antonio, Ostava Torriani (a Hamburg artist) as the Countess, 
Josephine Yorke (an American contralto) as Cherubino, and 
Rose Hersee as Susanna. 

49 



Thirty Years of 



dom, embracing the entire range of the master 's 
works. 

Carl Eosa was one of the most restless and in- 
defatigable of industrious men. His plan was to 
mount all his new productions in the provinces, so 
as to bring them to the metropolis smoothed and 
polished by frequent repetition. No sooner had 
one season ended than he began preparing for the 
next. In 1877 he did not visit London, and in the 
October of that year he wrote me from Aberdeen : 

I have been very busy bringing out "The Merry 
Wives of Windsor" (Nicolai), which you will be happy 
to hear was a very great success. I am glad to learn 
that you are getting connected with the London press, 
and will be happy to give you information about my 
future doings when the time comes; but any announce- 
ments at present would, I think, be premature. 

He was curiously diffident in the matter of ad- 
vertisement, and his habit of avoiding rather than 
seeking publicity offers a striking contrast to the 
methods of the impresario of to-day. When I 
knew he was coming to the Adelphi Theatre for 
a spring season in 1878, I wrote to him asking for 
portraits of himself and Miss Georgina Burns 
(who had just made her debut as Anne Page in 
' ' The Merry Wives, ' ' and subsequently became one 
of the most popular sopranos on the English stage) 
for publication in the " Operatic and Dramatic Al- 
bum. ' ' I received the following reply : 

50 



Musical Life in London 



EOYAL AMPHITHEATRE, LIVERPOOL, 

January 8, 1878. 
DEAR KLEIN: 

Miss Burns has no biography. She is quite a novice. 
Of her success I have no doubt, but under the circum- 
stances I think you had better not publish her picture, 
as I quite understand that you should only give those 
of well-known artists. 

I will send you a biography of myself which appeared 
in the " Illustrated London News," and which you can 
easily alter to suit your taste. But do you think le jeu 
vaut la chandelle f Do you think portraits of conductors 
and managers are sufficiently attractive to the general 
public? I think not. 

Sincerely yours, 

CARL ROSA. 

Those were not the days of " interviewers " or 
" snapshots, ' ' and I frequently experienced diffi- 
culty in persuading musical and dramatic celebri- 
ties to furnish me with the requisite material for 
writing notices of their careers. The portraits, of 
course, could be obtained easily enough, but the 
actresses and prima donnas always used to be 
dreadfully afraid lest I should want to publish 
their exact age. Miss Nelly Farren, for instance, 
positively refused to permit a word to be written 
about her, and her portrait went into the "Album" 
without a line of biographical detail. Another 
well-known actress, Miss Ada Cavendish, sent me 
her photo and autograph, but wrote: "I must say 

53 



Thirty Years of 



you set me a rather difficult task when you ask me 
for a biographical sketch of my career. Is it ab- 
solutely necessary that you should insert one! I 
really think that the public will take very little in- 
terest in my early troubles in the profession. If, 
therefore, you can do without it, please do so. ' ' On 
the other hand, I sometimes got more information 
than I really needed, or else I received corrections 
and thanks after inadvertent errors had appeared 
in type. Among letters of this kind was one from 
the eminent conductor, Sir Michael Costa, who was 
perhaps the severest martinet that ever wielded a 
baton, but who never forgot that he was a gentle- 
man and could be, when he chose, the very "pink 
of politeness." As a rule, he did not pay much 
attention to critics, youthful or otherwise; so, in 
spite of the inaccuracies, I felt rather flattered 
when I received from Sir Michael this extremely 
courteous note: 

59 ECCLESTON SQUARE, S. W. 
DEAR SIR: 

I have received the biography that you have taken 
the trouble to publish and kindly sent to me, for which 
I am much obliged. Only two observations you will 
allow me to make: first, that I composed "Eli" and 
"Naaman" for the Birmingham Musical Festivals of 
1855 and 1864, not for the Sacred Harmonic Society; 
and, secondly, that my rank in Grand Lodge [of Eng- 
lish Freemasons] is Past Grand Warden, not Grand 
Organist. 

I do not hesitate to make the above remarks, knowing 

54 



Musical Life in London 



how correct and exact you are, or are desirous to be, 
in whatever you publish. With best wishes, I remain, 

Sincerely yours, 

M. COSTA. 

Of Sir Michael Costa it is certainly not too much 
to say that he was in his time the greatest choral 
conductor that England possessed. He was a born 
"leader of men," and if I had not formed this im- 
pression on my early visits to Exeter Hall, when 
he was directing the performances of the old Sa- 
cred Harmonic Society, I should assuredly have 
done so at my first Handel Festival in 1874, when 
he took command of the army of four thousand 
singers and instrumentalists who obeyed his ample 
beat with such marvelous rhythmic swing and pre- 
cision. From the institution of the festival in 
1857, Costa alone had trained and directed this 
army; and so universal was the idea that he alone 
was capable of keeping it under control, that when 
the announcement of his serious illness came, just 
before the festival of 1883, there was an expression 
of dismay on all sides. The musician who filled the 
breach happily proved to be in the end as good as 
his predecessor. Indeed, August Manns, the es- 
teemed and talented conductor of the Crystal 
Palace Concerts, did much to improve the quality 
of his vast choir and to raise its level of efficiency 
and intelligence. Still, he would be the first to 
admit that the honor and glory of the most striking 
executive achievement known to music stands prin- 

55 



Thirty Years of 



cipallj, if not exclusively, to the credit of Michael 
Costa, the man who created the machine and left 
it in perfect working order. 

August Manns still an active veteran, though 
now in his seventy-ninth year has the qualities 
of a purely orchestral conductor in a far higher 
degree than they were ever possessed by Costa. 
His work at the Crystal Palace from 1855 to 1900, 
alike in its educational aspect and its conspicuously 
beneficial encouragement of native art, will endure, 
a lasting monument of industry, catholicity of 
taste, and consistent loftiness of purpose. At Syd- 
enham it was that Arthur Sullivan was first prof- 
fered a helping hand by the performance of his 
"Tempest" music on his return from Leipsic 
(April, 1862). Thither did Sir George -Grove- 
sometime secretary of the Crystal Palace Com- 
pany and writer of the luminous analytical notes 
that so materially enhanced the enjoyment of the 
famous Saturday Concerts convey the precious 
Schubert manuscripts which he had rescued from 
dust and oblivion in Vienna. There, under the aegis 
of August Manns, was solved for the first time in 
England the problem of cheap " classical' ' orches- 
tral concerts that should attract the masses and 
initiate them into the delight of listening to good 
music. There I heard my first symphony (it was 
Beethoven's "Pastoral"); and there, Saturday 
after Saturday, I heard the most celebrated solo- 
ists that visited our British shores from Rubin- 
stein and Clara Schumann to Paderewski, from 

56 



Musical Life in London 



Joachim to Sarasate, from Piatti to Hausmann 
and Hugo Becker. To attend these concerts regu- 
larly was a musical education in itself. 

In central London, during the " seventies, " the 
best medium for hearing good orchestral music 
was the Promenade Concerts at Covent Garden. 
These were held- in August and September, under 
the management of Messrs. A. and S. Gatti. My 
old friend Signor Luigi Arditi was the conductor 
for the first few seasons, and he was succeeded in 
turn by Sir Arthur Sullivan and Mr. F. H. Cowen ; 
while later on came a popular Welsh bandmaster, 
Mr. Gwyllym Crowe. Much that was interesting 
and instructive the shilling habitue could hear at 
these "Promenades"; but for me the most notable 
recollection associated with them is the occasion 
when Arditi gave the first performance in England 
of the "Trauermarsch" from ' l Gotterdammer- 
ung." The new tubas had only just arrived, and 
there was not much time for rehearsing. Never- 
theless, it seemed to me that the wonderful excerpt 
was fairly well played, though I was too breathless 
with amazement and admiration to be able to form 
a cool judgment. But I do know that the audience 
hardly waited for the last note before it burst into 
frantic applause, and insisted upon having the 
march played a second time. 

During the opera seasons of 1874-75, there ap- 
peared at Drury Lane a young Polish singer, who 
met with emphatic success in leading barytone parts 
such as the King ("Favorita"), Don Giovanni, De 

57 



Musical Life in London 



Nevers, Valentine, and Count Almaviva ("Le 
Nozze")- He also created a secondary part in 
Balfe's posthumous opera "II Talismano," which 
was produced in June, 1874, with Nilsson, Tie tj ens, 
Campanini, and others in the cast. I distinctly 
recollect him in two characters Don Giovanni 
and De Nevers. It seemed to me that he had a 
beautiful voice, of almost tenor quality, and both 
as singer and actor he displayed the highest 
promise. He appeared then under the name of 
4 1 De K-eschi. ' ' Twelve years later he was to return 
to London and take the town by storm under his 
own name of Jean de Beszke. 



CHAPTER IV 

Verdi at the Albert Hall The Maestro and his old classmate 
The Manzoni " Requiem "Wagner revisits London The Fes- 
tival of 1877: its true history Wagner and Wilhelmj The 
Meister and English prejudice His collapse at rehearsal- 
Hans Riehter Wagner " in the chair." 

IN May, 1876, I saw Verdi conduct his Manzoni 
"Kequiem" at the Royal Albert Hall. This 
was generally supposed to be his third visit to Lon- 
don, the previous occasions being when he came 
over in 1847 for the production of the opera "I 
Masnadieri, ' ' which he wrote expressly for Her 
Majesty's Theatre; and again in 1862 (the Exhibi- 
tion year) , when his ' ' Inno delle Nazioni ' ' was per- 
formed at the same theatre. But, according to his 
intimate friend, Mr. Randegger, the maestro also 
ran over from Paris one summer, without letting 
any one into the secret, for the purpose of hear- 
ing for himself what the world-famous Handel 
Festival was like. Mr. Eandegger has told me that 
his surprise was indescribable when he came across 
Verdi at the Crystal Palace with a score of " Israel 
in Egypt " tucked under his arm. He insisted, 
however, that his presence should be concealed; 
and he seems to have returned to Paris as mysteri- 
ously as he came. 

59 



Thirty Years of 



At the period of the "Requiem" visit there hap- 
pened to be residing in London an elderly Italian 
musician named Deliguoro, upon whom fortune 
had not smiled very kindly, and who frequently en- 
joyed the hospitality of my parents' house. An 
admirable contrapuntist, stuffed full of musical 
learning, he had the technique of composition at 
his fingers' ends; but of individual or fresh ideas 
his brain was utterly devoid. Like most dis- 
appointed geniuses, he was unable to perceive his 
own lack of originality. Once he played me a 
melody in mazurka rhythm a commonplace 
enough Neapolitan tune which he fondly re- 
garded as an inspiration ; and I shall never forget 
the old gentleman's horror when, a day or two af- 
terward, he caught me strumming his piece by ear 
upon the piano. I had to swear by all his own par- 
ticular saints that I would never even hum his tune 
again. ' ' Some one would be sure to steal it. ' ' He 
was utterly oblivious to the fact that he had vir- 
tually stolen it himself. 

The announcement of Verdi's coming was a 
great event for Deliguoro, inasmuch as the master 
and he had been fellow-students together at Milan, 
under Lavigna (1831-33). This was just after the 
preposterous refusal of the authorities at the Milan 
Conservatoire to admit Verdi as a pupil at that in- 
stitution because they thought he did not display 
sufficient promise of talent. Deliguoro 's delight at 
the prospect of meeting his old friend knew no 
bounds. He had not seen him for quite thirty 

60 



Musical Life in London 



years. "Giuseppe and I were like brothers. We 
ate, drank, and worked together the whole of the 
time. His harmony exercises always had more mis- 
takes than mine, and he could never master the art 
of writing a really good fugue. I wonder whether 
he has dared to put one into his ' Requiem'! We 
shall see ; for I am going to write and ask him for 
a ticket to hear it." In due course tickets arrived 
for the rehearsal and the concert, and Deliguoro 
showed them to me with the utmost pride. 

Most of the distinguished musical folk in London 
were present at the "grand rehearsal"; and yet 
the vast auditorium, capable of holding 10,000 per- 
sons comfortably, looked comparatively deserted. 
I sat with Deliguoro not far from the orchestra. 
He was so excited that I had the utmost difficulty in 
restraining him from climbing over the barrier and 
taking Verdi in his arms there and then. Nor 
were my own feelings altogether calm as I gazed 
for the first time upon the man who had composed 
"La Traviata," "Rigoletto," and "Aida." He 
was then sixty-three years of age, and his closely 
cut beard was fast turning gray ; but he was as ac- 
tive and robust as a youth, his eyes were keen and 
bright, and his clear, penetrating voice when he ad- 
dressed the choir (in French or Italian, I forget 
which) could be heard all over the hall. 

At the end of the fugal chorus " Sanctus Domi- 
nus," which my neighbor declared to be more 
scholarly than anything he had anticipated, Verdi 
came around to speak to his friends among 

63 



Thirty Years of 



the select audience, and ere long I could see that 
he was staring in an uncertain way at Deliguoro. 
Then all of a sudden he appeared to make up his 
mind, and took a " bee-line " over the stall chairs 
to the spot where we were standing. ' ' Tu sei Deli- 
guoro, non e ver I ' ' exclaimed the maestro. ' ' Si, si, 
son Deliguoro," replied his old friend, his eyes 
brimming over with tears. 1 And then followed a 
close embrace that I thought would never end. It 
would be hard to say which of the two former class- 
mates evinced the fuller measure of joy. 

But in the midst of the excitement I was not for- 
gotten. Deliguoro presented me to Verdi as "the 
son of the best friends he had in London, and a 
youthful but modest musical critic. ' ' I added that 
I had been indebted to Signor Deliguoro for much 
good teaching and advice in the study of the art. 
"And you could not do better," said Verdi in 
French, as he shook me by the hand. "Deliguoro 
is not only a colossus of counterpoint, but he has 
a great heart (c'est un grand c&ur), and I feel per- 
sonally grateful to any one who is kind to him." 
Nor did the great man, who was the soul of gener- 
osity, forget his own duty in the matter ; for, prior 
to leaving London, he sent a substantial money gift 
to the less fortunate friend of his youth, who was 
destined to survive only a year or two longer. 

Surely none who heard that magnificent perform- 
ance of the Manzoni "Kequiem" can have ever 

1 " You are Deliguoro, are you not? " "Yes, yes, 
I am Deliguoro." 

64 



Musical Life in London 



forgotten the combined effect of the beautiful mu- 
sic, the superb singing of the Albert Hall choir 
(trained by Barnby), the wonderful voices of the 
soloists, and, pervading all, the subtle magnetic in- 
fluence induced by the presence and personal guid- 
ance of the composer. The solo artists included 
three members of the original quartet, namely: 
Mme. Stolz, Mme. Waldmann, and Signor Masini. 
All possessed noble organs ; and the famous tenor, 
who has never been heard in opera in England, was 
then quite at his best. But the undoubted gem of 
the whole performance was the " Agnus Dei," with 
its octave unison phrases for the two women's 
voices, sung by Stolz and Waldmann with a deli- 
cacy and charm of simply ethereal loveliness. Nor 
shall I forget the pains taken by Verdi at rehearsal 
to obtain from his chorus and orchestra of eight 
hundred a pianissimo in fitting proportion to the 
exquisite tone of these singers. 

A YEAR later Richard Wagner came to London to 
take part in the series of Wagner Festival Con- 
certs at the Eoyal Albert Hall, which had been ar- 
ranged with a view to paying off the debt on the 
new theatre at Bayreuth. 1 The events of this visit 

. l lt will be remembered that there was a deficit of something 
like 140,000 marks ($35,000) after the opening season of 1876, 
when "Der Ring des Nibelungen" was performed for the first 
time in its entirety. London, however, did little toward liqui- 
dating this debt. It was ultimately paid off with the gross re- 
ceipts of some cycles of "The Bing" at Munich, for which* the 
performers all gave their services gratuitously. 

65 



Thirty Years of 



are briefly narrated in " Grove " by Mr. Edward 
Dannreuther, at whose house in Bayswater Wag- 
ner stayed from April 30 to June 4. Evidently, 
however, Mr. Dannreuther had no desire to dwell 
in detail upon the incidents of this "London 
episode." He was even a trifle ashamed that his 
name should have been associated with it in Glase- 
napp's biography of Wagner "and elsewhere"; 
and he expressly states "that he had nothing what- 
ever to do with the planning of the * festival,' nor 
with the business arrangements." All he did was 
to "attend to the completion of the orchestra with 
regard to the ' extra ' wind-instruments, and, at 
Wagner's request, to conduct the preliminary re- 
hearsals. ' ' 

No doubt such was the case. But thus to dis- 
claim all connection with the enterprise has always 
sounded to me rather like a slur upon the good in- 
tentions of those whose devotion to Wagner's cause 
had led to the inception and organization of this 
affair. That Wagner himself was annoyed at cer- 
tain things which occurred, and that he went away 
on the whole extremely disappointed, may be safely 
assumed, if only from what was subsequently said 
by his native champions of the press in Bavaria 
"and elsewhere." A great many of those state- 
ments, however, were either untrue or grossly ex- 
aggerated. The whole truth has never been related, 
and as I happened to have been "behind the 
scenes," more or less, throughout the Wagner 
Festival of 1877, it may be interesting to my 

66 



Musical Life in JLondon 



readers if I now endeavor, as concisely as possible, 
to tell the story. 

To make matters clear, I must premise that the 
adversaries and supporters of Wagnerian art in 
London were then ranged in three distinct camps. 
There were (1) those who refused to accept his 
music under any conditions; (2) those who would 
accept all he had written down to "Tannhauser" 
and "Lohengrin"; and (3) those who worshiped 
both at the temple and from afar, accepting and 
rejoicing in everything. The first of these sections 
was gradually dying out, or was being absorbed by 
the second, as the beauty of the operas heard in 
London within the previous two years slowly but 
surely forced its way into the heart and under- 
standing of the people. The prejudice against the 
later works still prevailed, however, and to such an 
extent that no London impresario yet dreamed of 
mounting "Tristan," or "Die Walkiire," or "Die 
Meistersinger, " despite the success those works 
were then meeting with in many Continental cities. 
All one could say was that musicians were begin- 
ning to display an interest in the preludes and ex- 
cerpts occasionally performed in the concert-room ; 
while, as a matter of course, the London Wagner 
Society was constantly growing in numbers and 
strength, and working a steady "propaganda" on 
behalf of the cause. 

Among the most popular artists appearing in 
England at that time was the eminent violinist, Au- 
gust Wilhelmj, who was one of Wagner's most ar- 

6 7 



Thirty Years of 



dent disciples and the leader of the first Bayreuth 
orchestra. He was pretty accurately acquainted 
with the state of affairs, and he it was who origi- 
nally conceived the idea of inviting Wagner to con- 
duct a series of concerts upon a festival scale in the 
British capital. He broached the subject during 
the autumn of 1876, and at first, I believe, Wagner 
was utterly unwilling to consider the proposition. 
Twice already had the Meister been in England 
once in the summer of 1839, 1 and again in 1855, 
when for a single season he took the baton laid 
down by Costa as conductor of the Philharmonic 
Society. His recollections of this second visit can- 
not have been wholly pleasant; but Wilhelnrj 
showed him how completely the aspect of things 
had changed, and argued that there was now an 
immense curiosity to see him as well as hear more 
of his music. Besides, six concerts at the Albert 
Hall would assuredly result in a net profit of as 
many thousand pounds. The temptation was too 
strong to be resisted; Wagner ultimately decided 
to go. 

Wilhelmj, delighted at having secured the mas- 
ter's promise, at once set about finding a respon- 

1 He then stayed only eight days, and lodged, together with 
his wife, at a boarding-house (since pulled down) in Compton 
Street, Soho. This short visit Wagner made en route for Paris, 
but he also stopped at Boulogne, where he made the acquaintance 
of Meyerbeer and obtained from him the introductions which 
gave rise to Heine's oft-quoted remark: "Do you know what 
makes me suspicious of this young man? It is that Meyerbeer 
recommends him." 

68 



Musical Life in London 



sible manager who would undertake the arrange- 
ments and advance the necessary capital for the 
preliminary outlay. Herein lay the initial mistake. 
Instead of employing some well-known concert 
agent, the violinist placed the whole business in 
the hands of a very respectable but inexperienced 
firm, whose place of business was at the Hengler 
Circus building in Argyll Street. I will not deny 
that this firm worked hard and did their best. But 
unfortunately both they and Herr Wilhelmj were 
far too lavish in their expenditure. They engaged 
Materna and the pick of the Bayreuth artists at big 
prices. The orchestra, with Wilhelmj as leader, 
was nearly two hundred strong. The disburse- 
ments for advertising, printing, programmes, etc., 
were enormous, and everything was done in the 
costliest fashion. All this might have been justified 
had the attendance at the festival reached the ex- 
pected level. But unluckily the prices charged for 
seats were prohibitive, and the public refused to 
come in anything like the necessary numbers. 

On the night after Wagner's arrival in London 
a dinner was given in his honor by his managers 
at their show-rooms in Argyll Street. Only recog- 
nized friends of the " cause" were invited, and I 
had the honor of being among the number. Toasts 
were given and responded to, and Wagner made 
one of the characteristic little speeches for which he 
was famous. Late in the evening I was introduced 
to him. He asked me to sit beside him a few min- 
utes, and began by demanding in German my age. 

7 1 



Thirty Years of 



"Nearly twenty-one," I replied. 

"Why, you were not born when I was last here. 
I suppose you know, though, that your critics did 
not display any great affection for me then. Do 
you think they are better inclined toward me now? " 

I answered that I fancied he would perceive an 
improved attitude all round. 

"I hope so," said Wagner. "I know that some 
of my best and truest friends live in London, and, 
sooner or later, their influence must begin to tell. ' ' 

I ventured to remark that I thought his music in 
the long run would suffice to accomplish the desired 
conversion. He turned his keen glance toward me 
for a moment, and paused, as though wishing to 
read me through. The inspection appeared to be 
satisfactory ; for a smile suffused his features as he 
replied : 

"Yes; but here they still call it ' music of the 
future,' and in this land of oratorio who knows 
how long they will take to get rid of their preju- 
dices, unless the agitators keep stirring them up? 
Well, we shall see what happens next week." 

Then he turned to speak to Wilhelmj, and the 
brief chat was at an end. I sat still, however, a 
minute or two longer, and watched with intense 
interest the play of facial expression, the eloquent 
curves of the mouth, the humorous light in the 
eyes, the quiet, subtle laugh, while he addressed in 
turn the various friends gathered around him. 
That evening Wagner was thoroughly happy. He 
felt himself in a congenial atmosphere, content with 

72 



Musical Life in London 



the present, and hopeful nay, sanguine of the 
morrow. I was glad to have seen him in that beatific 
mood, and not a little proud to have spoken with 
him. What a pity that he was not to bid a final 
farewell to England in an equally satisfied frame 
of mind! 

The final rehearsal for the opening concert of 
the festival took place at the Albert Hall on May 
5. Wagner had himself chosen the programmes. 
He was to conduct each first part, consisting of 
selections from all his operas, from "Eienzi" to 
"Tristan"; while Hans Eichter, who now made 
his first appearance in England, was to direct the 
excerpts from "Der Eing des Nibelungen" that 
formed each second part. Most of the preliminary 
work had been done under Mr. Dannreuther, in 
whom Wagner reposed great confidence. All that 
remained was to give the finishing touches and for 
the composer-conductor to accustom himself to the 
vast auditorium and the huge crescent-shaped 
phalanx of orchestral players spread before him. 

From the outset, as it seemed to me, he failed to 
place himself en rapport with either. The abnor- 
mal conditions appeared completely to upset him. 
In a word, he succumbed there and then to a severe 
attack of Albert Hall stage fright an illness fa- 
miliar to nearly every artist on stepping for the 
first time upon the platform of that gigantic amphi- 
theatre. 1 However, after a glance of astonishment 

1 Another bad sufferer that day was Frau Materna. I was 
speaking to her in the artists ' room just^ before she went on to 

73 



Thirty Years of 



round the empty hall, and a few whispered words 
to Wilhelmj, and yet a few more to Hans Kichter 
(who was posted beside the conductor's desk), the 
great man raised his baton and gave the signal for 
the start. The inaugural piece was the "Kaiser- 
marsch," and it was well chosen for the purpose. 
Its pompous and sonorous strains, proceeding with 
stately rhythmical movement throughout, were 
perfectly calculated to show off the imposing vol- 
ume of the big orchestra in such a building as that. 
It gave no trouble, and the effect was superb. But, 
unluckily, instead of imbuing Wagner with a little 
confidence, this preludial essay left him more 
palpably nervous than before. 

The second piece on the list was the overture to 
the "Fliegende Hollander. " Here, I confess, I 
looked for something exceptional. I had always un- 
derstood that Wagner was a fine conductor, at least 
of works with which he was in true sympathy, and 
I expected his reading of the "Dutchman" over- 
ture to be in the nature of a revelation. Imagine, 
then, my disappointment and sorrow when it re- 
sulted in a complete breakdown! Twice nay, 
thrice did he make a fresh start, while Mr. Dann- 
reuther and Mr. Deichmann (the faithful leader of 
the second violins) took it by turns to translate his 

rehearse, and she was positively trembling with excitement and 
fear "lest she should be unable to make herself heard in such a 
huge place." I begged her to sing quite in her usual manner, 
and, above all things, not to "force" her voice. She afterward 
thanked me and said that she had been simply amazed at the 
ease with which she could sing in the hall. 

74 




From a photograph by Sarony, N. Y. 

MATERNA 



Musical Life in London 



complaints and instructions to the orchestra. But 
it was of no avail. He utterly failed either to in- 
dicate or to obtain what he wanted, and at last, in 
sheer despair, he threw down his stick and re- 
quested Richter to do the work for him. Well do 
I remember the sharp round of applause with which 
the band greeted the Viennese conductor as he 
mounted the rostrum. It was thoughtless unkind, 
if you will ; for it must have smote with unpleasant 
sound upon the ears of the sensitive composer. 
But the overture went without a hitch. It was 
played as I had never heard it played before. 

After this Wagner decided that he would con- 
duct only one or two pieces at each concert, leaving 
all the rest to Eichter. But would the public be 
satisfied? They were paying to see Wagner as 
well as to hear his music. The matter was dis- 
cussed, and it was suggested, as a compromise, that 
when he was not conducting he should sit upon the 
platform in an arm-chair facing the audience. This 
course was actually adopted. At each of the six 
concerts comprising the festival scheme, after he 
had conducted the opening piece and acknowledged 
a magnificent reception, he sat down in his arm- 
chair and gazed at the assemblage before him with 
a sphinx-like expression of countenance that I shall 
never forget. He must have felt as though he were 
being exhibited, like some strange, interesting ani- 
mal, for all the world to stare at ; and his reflections 
doubtless were as unenviable as his situation. 

Obviously it would have been unfair to estimate 

77 



Musical Life in London 



Wagner's ability as a conductor by what he did at 
these concerts. Yet I fear some of his critics were 
not wholly considerate in that respect, for the com- 
ments uttered in several quarters showed plainly 
that no allowances had been made. I quite agree 
with Mr. Dannreuther, therefore, when he says that 
"at the Albert Hall, Wagner did not do himself 
justice. His strength was already on the wane. 
The rehearsals fatigued him, and he was frequently 
faint in the evening. His memory played him 
tricks, and his beat was nervous. ' ' 

To make matters worse, it was quickly perceived 
that the festival was going to prove a financial 
failure. Nothing could have been more discour- 
aging than the sight of numerous unoccupied boxes 
and stalls, and in the cheaper parts a "beggarly ar- 
ray of empty benches. " It was determined, just 
in time, that a couple of extra concerts should be 
given at reduced prices, the artists and executants 
accepting half-salary, while all the " plums " of 
the festival were crowded into the two programmes. 
This move retrieved the fortunes of the venture. 
A heavy loss was converted into a profit of 700, 
which sum was duly handed over to Wagner for his 
Bayreuth fund. But it was a miserable result in 
comparison with the expected thousands, and, not- 
withstanding the polite letters of thanks which he 
afterward wrote to his English friends, I have 
more than a vague suspicion that he always looked 
back upon this eventful visit with mingled feelings 
of annoyance and regret. 

7 8 



CHAPTER V 

Cambridge degrees for Brahms and Joachim Performance of 
the " Exercises " " Carmen " produced at Her Majesty's De- 
but of Minnie Hauk A versatile and accomplished prima donna 
Carmen visits Seville Anton Rubinstein Pablo Sarasate 
Etelka Gerster Gayarre Lassalle Edouard de Reszke 
A rare galaxy of talent The Richter Concerts. 

IN course of the almost daily companionship 
which, between 1874 and 1880, it was my privi- 
lege to enjoy with Signor Garcia, we used, now and 
then, to attend together some important musical 
function. Two of these occasions dwell in my 
memory with peculiar vividness. 

Early in 1877, the University of Cambridge de- 
cided to confer the degree of "Mus. Doc.," 
honoris causa, upon two of the world's greatest 
musicians, Johannes Brahms and Joseph Joachim. 
The distinguished violinist readily accepted this 
invitation, together with the customary conditions 
therein involved, namely, to attend in person to 
receive the degree, and to furnish some new com- 
position as an "exercise" to be performed at the 
university on the day of the ceremony. To Brahms 
the intended compliment involved a good deal more. 
It meant a long journey to a country that he had 
never visited, and, as he afterward bluntly ad- 

79 



Thirty Years of 



mitted, had never had the smallest desire to visit. 
He looked upon England as probably the least 
musical of European countries, and set no store 
whatever upon honorary degrees, even when be- 
stowed by such an ancient university as Cam- 
bridge. 1 He therefore declined the invitation to 
be present, but expressed his willingness to receive 
the degree if it could be conferred in absentia; and 
he offered as his doctor's " exercise " the new 
symphony in C minor, No. 1, which had been per- 
formed for the first time in the previous November 
at Karlsruhe. After some consideration the offer 
was accepted, and March 8, 1877, was the day fixed 
for the ceremony to take place at Cambridge. 

The especial significance of this event, apart 
from its immediate interest, lies in the important 
bearing that it had upon the wider understanding 
and appreciation of Brahms 's music in Great 
Britain. Down to this time Johannes Brahms had 
been known to the general mass of amateurs as a 
writer of chamber music ; and by all but the culti- 
vated few his compositions were voted abstruse 
and dull, if undeniably clever. Indeed, even his 
own countrymen for the most part had failed as 
yet to grasp the true tenor and might of his genius. 
Writing in that same year, one of his biographers, 
Herr A. Maczewski, said of Brahms that the "in- 
dividual character of his ideas and the intellectual 

1 Brahms was nevertheless genuinely pleased when, ten years 
later, the Emperor William appointed him a Knight of the 
Order "pour le merite" for Arts and Sciences, 

80 



I" g 

t 





Musical Life in London 



qualities of his nature certainly stand in the way 
of his overcoming opposition and gaining the 
sympathies of the large mass of the musical public. 
. . . With him beauty seems to hold a place sub- 
ordinate to expression, and a certain harshness is 
in consequence occasionally met with in his har- 
mony which must hinder the popularity of his 
works" (Grove's Dictionary, Vol. I, p. 270). 

If the "Deutsches Kequiem" opened the eyes of 
German music-lovers, it was assuredly the sym- 
phony in C minor that awakened English ears to 
a just and worthy estimate of the gifts of the 
Hamburg composer. The impression created at 
Cambridge was to spread within a few years over 
the entire kingdom. "What a masterpiece for a 
first symphony ! ' ' exclaimed Garcia, as we listened 
to the rehearsal by the Cambridge University Mu- 
sical Society under Villiers Stanford. What a 
masterpiece indeed! And what patience for such 
a musician to have waited before writing it until 
he was forty-three years old and could inscribe 
* ' Op. 68 ' ' upon the score of his symphony No. 1 ! 
Of course we all smiled when the opening theme 
of the finale suggested that unmistakable resem- 
blance to the corresponding subject in the last 
movement of Beethoven's " Ninth, " which Brahms 
always protested he could not perceive. But the 
trifling similarity mattered naught unless to lend 
the new work a greater charm; for Brahms was 
nothing if not original, and the soul of honesty 
itself. His beautiful "Schicksalslied" was also 

83 



Thirty Years of 



performed at this concert, and it helped to confirm 
the deep impression created by the symphony. 
Alas, that he should not have been there himself ! 

But the personal tribute paid that day to his be- 
loved friend, Joseph Joachim, was in every way 
remarkable. Well-known musicians came from dis- 
tant parts of the country to be present. It 'was to 
do honor to the illustrious violinist whom he had 
known long years that my own venerable master 
made the journey from the metropolis to witness 
the bestowal upon him of a distinction similar to 
that which had already been conferred upon him- 
self as the inventor of the laryngoscope. And 
never has the Public Orator of Cambridge Univer- 
sity employed terms more felicitous or more eulo- 
gistic than he contrived to put into his Latin speech 
in this instance. Dr. Joachim's "exercise" con- 
sisted of his fine overture in memory of the cele- 
brated poet Heinrich von Kleist, which was played 
under his own direction. He also gave a superb 
performance of the Beethoven violin concerto, of 
which work he is, by common consent, admitted to 
be the greatest of all interpreters. 

In the summer of the following year to be pre- 
cise, June 22, 1878 Signor Garcia accompanied 
me to the first performance in England of Bizet's 
"Carmen." It was not an easy thing at that time 
to persuade him to go to the Opera. The singing 
that he heard did not, as a rule, please him, and 
he was content to dwell undisturbed with the mem- 
ories of a glorious past. An opera on a Spanish 



Musical Life in London 



subject, however, was something of an attraction, 
especially if it touched upon bull-fighting, which 
would appear to stir the blood of every Spaniard 
at any and every period of life. Moreover, I fancy 
he was acquainted with Prosper MerimeVs story, 
and had heard some accounts of Bizet's music. I 
reminded him that "Carmen" had been next door 
to a failure at the Opera-Comique three years pre- 
vious. "I know," he replied, "and the poor com- 
poser died of a broken heart three months later. 
That is the way France generally treats rising 
talent, including her own. I place little value upon 
the opinion of Paris regarding new works." 

The only bit of "Carmen" then known in Lon- 
don was the "Habanera," which had been sung 
for a year or so with notable success by that gifted 
artist, Mme. Trebelli. As a matter of fact, though, 
the music of this air had been in her possession for 
a long time; hence I am inclined to believe either 
that it is a genuine Spanish tune which Bizet 
adapted and arranged, or else that it was written 
by him some time before the opera. The ' ' Chanson 
du Toreador," which eventually helped so much 
to render "Carmen" popular in every country, had 
not yet been heard in England. Indeed, Bizet 
was practically an unknown composer, while the 
fact of his being a Frenchman was, in the opinion 
of a Spaniard, distinctly against him as an indica- 
tion of ability to write or imitate Spanish music. 1 

ir rhe general feeling on this subject in Spain amounts almost 
to a national prejudice. To this day " Carmen," although 

85 



Thirty Years of 



I recollect that Signer Garcia was in a very critical 
mood, albeit prepared, with his customary impar- 
tiality, to allow the full meed of praise where praise 
was due. 

The opera was well cast and well staged. Mr. 
Mapleson had seen it at the Brussels Monnaie dur- 
ing the preceding winter, and it was on the strength 
of the success won there, alike by the work and by 
the exponent of the title-role, that he had deter- 
mined to transfer both to the boards of Her Maj- 
esty's. The Carmen in question was no other than 
Miss Minnie Hauk, the young American prima 
donna who had sung at Co vent Garden one autumn 
season when quite a girl, but had not been heard 
again in London until the present year, when she 
made her rentree as Violetta in "La Traviata." 
Her Carmen was already famous. It was consid- 
ered as good dramatically as that of Mme. Galli- 
Marie, 1 and in a vocal sense far superior. Garcia 
was simply delighted with the artistic finish, the vi- 
vacity and charm, of her performance. He thought 
she had caught with marvelous instinct and truth 
the peculiarities of the Spanish type, the coquettish 
manners and the defiant devilry of the wayward 

greatly liked and frequently performed, is less intensely popu- 
lar in Spain than in other countries certainly less so than the 
work of purely Spanish composers such as Albeniz and Breton. 
At the same time, it takes a born Spaniard to recognize the ex- 
tremely delicate nuances that distinguish the real native article 
from the clever foreign imitation. 

1 This artist created the character in Paris. She also appeared 
in it at Her Majesty's, with a French company, during the au- 
tumn of 1886. 

86 



Musical Life in London 



gipsy. He admired immensely the individuality 
of an assumption which, if it was subsequently fol- 
lowed upon more or less identical lines by many 
excellent artists, has been equaled only by three I 
mean Pauline Lucca, Emma Calve, and Zelie de 
Lussan. 

Nor since have I heard a sweeter, gentler, or more 
persuasive Michaela than Alwina Valleria (nee 
Miss Lohmann, of Baltimore), another American 
soprano who was just beginning to win her way 
into the affections of the English public. The 
Escamilloand an altogether ideal one was that 
remarkably fine barytone, Del Puente, who in after 
years settled down in New York as a singer and 
teacher; while Campanini sang and acted with su- 
perb dramatic power as Don Jose. It was a strong 
cast, therefore, and Sir Michael Costa conducted 
the opera with exemplary care, even if he failed to 
bring into full relief the manifold beauties and ex- 
quisitely delicate touches of Bizet's score. But 
Signor Garcia was simply enthusiastic, and he la- 
bored as effectively as any individual in the whole 
theatre to bring about the triumphant reception 
that greeted "Carmen" that night. The subject 
and its treatment alike appealed to him ; he thought 
the story intensely dramatic; the degree of real 
Spanish color in the music quite astonished him. 
He had not imagined that any Spanish opera after 
"Don Giovanni" and "II Barbiere" could please 
him so much. 

I may be excused for thus dwelling at length 

8 9 



Thirty Years of 



upon the premiere of " Carmen " in England, be- 
cause from that moment dates the real popularity 
of the opera in Europe a popularity, by the way, 
that has been exceeded by one opera only, Gounod's 
"Faust." It was further noteworthy in that it 
first brought into prominence the two American- 
born singers Minnie Hauk and Alwina Valleria 
who were to be most closely identified with the 
rapid upward progress of the Carl Eosa opera en- 
terprise from 1880 to 1886. 

I made the acquaintance of Minnie Hauk in Lon- 
don during the season just referred to. A year or 
so later she married a well-known traveler and 
writer, Baron Ernst von Hesse- Wartegg. It was 
in 1880 that she joined the Carl Rosa troupe, and 
appeared at Her Majesty's in "Lohengrin," 
"Aida," and "Mignon" when these operas were 
given for the first time in English ; also she made 
an admirable Katharine in Goetz 's ' ' Taming of the 
Shrew." In Wagner's opera she was ably sup- 
ported by Herr Anton Schott; in "Mignon," by 
that admirable singer, Joseph Maas, the best Eng- 
lish stage tenor since Sims Reeves. In fact, these 
were all representations of the rarest excellence; 
and they all threw into a strong light the singular 
versatility of Minnie Hauk, who could bring out 
the poetry of Elsa or the deep passion of Aida as 
completely as she could the diablerie of Carmen or 
the petulant tempers of Mignon and Katharine. 1 



1 Mme. de Wartegg is at the present time living in retirement 
with her husband at Triebschen, near Lucerne. Her villa ad- 

90 




IP 

l> 

% 02 




Musical Life in London 



Besides being versatile in her art (she could 
boast a repertory of unusual dimensions), Minnie 
Hauk was an accomplished musician, a facile lin- 
guist, a kindly hostess, and the most interesting 
of correspondents. More than one agreeable sum- 
mer holiday did I spend with Mme. de Wartegg 
and her mother and husband at their Biningen- 
Schlossli near Basel, in Switzerland. For the weary 
worker it was an ideal spot in which to repose and 
recuperate; likewise for the busy prima donna to 
study in peace and find inspiration for new parts. 
She wrote me once from Biningen : 

I am studying very diligently a new role or, rather, 
an old one that I have never yet essayed that is, Frau 
Fluth (Mistress Ford) in "The Merry Wives of Wind- 
sor. " I have also to freshen up for my coming season 
in Berlin my recollection of the "Domino Noir," and 
Rose Friquet in ' ' Les Dragons de Villars, ' ' besides other 
operas put aside for several years. How am I to do all 
this if I cannot manage to stay at home for once in the 
early summer? Since we have had the Schlossli I have 
never been here in May or June, and it has been a de- 
light; for I have never seen the meadows so green and 
beautiful, or heard such wonderful warbling all day 
long as from the birds in the park here. I am trying to 
learn from them; and I feel more and more convinced 
that Wagner, Bizet, and many other composers have been 
inspired with their "motives" by listening to the birds. 

joins the one at which Wagner resided from 1866 until 1872, and 
where he completed "Die Meistersinger" and wrote nearly the 
whole of the latter half of the ' ' Nibelungenring. ' > 

93 



Thirty Years of 



In course of her numerous tours in different parts 
of the world (including Japan, where she was 
unluckily "caught" in an earthquake and had a 
most providential escape from destruction), Mme. 
Minnie Hauk used to write me regular accounts of 
her artistic doings and her varied experiences. 
From these I have only space to quote the follow- 
ing letter, which has a special interest on account 
of its reference to the scene of her greatest operatic 
triumph : 

SEVILLE, January 25, 1892. 
MY DEAR MR. KLEIN : 

What a world of antique novelty I have gone through 
within the last four weeks ! I have lived, as it were, in 
the atmosphere of the Scriptures, and have seen sights 
most marvelous. We left Tangiers four days ago, and 
I can hardly realize that I have seen all this antiquated 
world peopled as of yore walking, breathing in fact, 
living life as it was lived nearly two thousand years ago ! 

And now what a change Seville ! I am gratified to 
find the cigarette girls just as gay and bright with flash- 
ing eyes and rose in hair as I expected. Not as pretty, 
perhaps; but at every turn one can imagine a Carmen- 
cita (and what a common name Carmen is here, to be 
sure !) . The city is a dead one, so to speak ; but at night 
it livens up, and at the theatres the castagnette-playing, 
the dancing, and the singing have the true old Spanish 
ring. There is something very fascinating about the life 
here, and I only regret I cannot see it in the spring-tide. 
To-morrow we leave for the Alhambra, stopping on the 
way at Cordova to see the great Mosque. 

I finished my American season of four months (with 
Mr. Abbey) at Boston, and sang in all fifty-three times 

94 



Musical Life in London 



in three operas ' ' Lohengrin, " " Carmen, ' ' and ' ' Caval- 
leria Rusticana." We had crowded houses all the time. 
It was a most interesting season, but rather fatiguing. 
I think I have deserved my holiday, and shall rest two 
months before fulfilling my engagements at Nice, etc. 
With united best regards, 

Ever yours faithfully, 

MINNIE HAUK-DE WARTEGG. 

In addition to the events already recorded, there 
belong to the years 1877 and 1879 some experiences 
which, for me at least, will ever be replete with 
interest. In the earlier year I heard for the first 
time Anton Rubinstein and Pablo Sarasate, and 
witnessed the debuts of Etelka Gerster and Ga- 
yarre. With the exception of a brief visit in 1876, 
Rubinstein had not been in London for seven or 
eight years. I now heard him at the Philharmonic, 
at the Crystal Palace (where I saw him conduct 
with all the "extra" movements included his 
grandiose but interminable "Ocean" symphony), 
and at some recitals at St. James's Hall. He was 
then in his forty-eighth year, and had attained the 
fullest measure of his extraordinary powers. 

Universally acknowledged to be the greatest 
pianist of his time, the public simply worshiped 
Rubinstein as an artist and gathered in crowds 
whenever he appeared. His technique bordered 
upon the miraculous; his interpretative gifts were 
worthy of a musician who was himself no mean 
creative genius ; his style, the reflex, as it were, of 
his massive leonine aspect, was at once the most 

95 



Thirty Years of 



noble and most original of any pianist I have ever 
listened to. The fire and passion in his soul poured 
out at his fingers ' ends ; and yet his touch could be 
as gentle and caressing as a woman's. In private 
life his chief amusement was a game of whist. He 
loved the game and played it well as I discovered 
for myself one evening when I visited him at the 
old Hotel Dieudonne, in St. James 's. Quite a num- 
ber of friends dropped in after dinner, but Rubin- 
stein simply ignored their presence until he had 
finished his rubber. Then he went round and 
warmly welcomed them. After a time he sat down 
to the piano, and never left it till midnight, giving 
us a treat that will never fade from my memory 
as long as I live. 1 

An artist of entirely different calibre, yet barely 
less serious in his aims and certainly not less re- 
markable for the flawless perfection of his technical 
gifts, Senor Sarasate had just turned thirty when 
he made his first appearance before a London au- 
dience. Three years later (October 13, 1877) his 
rendering of Mendelssohn's violin concerto at the 
Crystal Palace fairly took the town by storm, and 
he repeated his triumph at the Philharmonic in the 
following spring. After 1885 he became an almost 

1 Eubinstein visited London again in 1881, when his opera 
"The Demon'* was produced at Covent Garden, and yet once 
more (for the last time) in 1886, when he gave his famous series 
of Historical Recitals at St. James 's Hall. As an operatic com- 
poser he never won success in England, but his chamber music 
and songs are among the best-known and most popular in the 
modern repertory. 

96 



Musical Life in London 



annual visitor to England, and he also toured sev- 
eral years with unvarying success in the United 
States. 

It was quite late in the season of 1877 when 
Etelka Gerster made her debut at Her Majesty 's 
as Amina in "La Sonnambula. ' ' She was one of 
Mr. Mapleson's surprises. Beyond a very high 
register, no one expected anything extraordinary 
from the newcomer. Imagine, therefore, the de- 
light of habitues when they heard for the first time 
a voice of exquisitely musical quality and bird-like 
tone, trained to execute the most difficult fiorituri 
and cadenzas with the utmost care, and capable of 
running up comfortably to the giddy height of an 
F in alt. Moreover, the Hungarian soprano proved 
to be a good actress and a conscientious artist, so 
that her success was never for a moment in doubt. 
In the following season she accompanied Mr. Ma- 
pleson to America, and there began a long series of 
triumphs too familiar to need recalling. 

Gayarre was not a great tenor in the highest 
sense of the term. Nevertheless, he possessed vocal 
and histrionic attributes of a very distinguished 
kind, and chance so willed it that he was destined 
to "bridge over" to a large extent the interval 
that separated the final retirement of Mario from 
the advent (as a tenor) of Jean de Reszke. By 
birth a Spaniard, and hailing from Pampeluna 
(the town in which Sarasate was born), Giuliano 
Gayarre had studied and won his early successes in 
Italy. He was an exponent of the new quasi-nasal 

99 



Thirty Years of 



school of tenor singers, which already had Ta- 
magno for one of its leading protagonists. To 
my ears his production, on the night he made his 
debut at Covent Garden (April 7, 1877), sounded 
strange and not wholly pleasant. Still, the voice 
traveled well, and he sang the music of Gennaro 
with so much tenderness, so much charm, allied to 
genuine dramatic feeling and expression, that the 
crowded house forthwith accorded him a splendid 
reception. 

I declined to join in the general chorus of "An- 
other Mario!" It struck me as little less than 
sacrilege to compare with the divine voice of that 
tenor an organ which could occasionally descend, 
or ascend, to the utterance of tones that quickly 
earned the name of the "Gayarre bleat. " My 
criticism drew forth several rejoinders, among 
them the following from the Covent Garden con- 
ductor, Signor Vianesi: 

Wait to hear Gayarre two or three times. You will 
appreciate him as a true artist. If I can correct him of 
too much dragging (the present Italian style), he will be 
"Number One"! 

In a measure, this prediction proved to be cor- 
rect. Of the operatic tenors heard in London dur- 
ing the succeeding ten years, Gayarre was easily 
the most interesting. Campanini and Fancelli had 
finer voices; while of the French school Nicolini 
and Capoul were perhaps more attractive. But in 

IOO 



Musical Life in London 



certain operas Gayarre stood, for the time being, 
upon an eminence by himself. As Fernando in "La 
Favorita" (his best part), as Jean de Ley den in 
"Le Prophete," as Enzo in Ponchielli's "Gio- 
conda" (his original creation), and as Gennaro in 
"Lucrezia Borgia," he was for a long time posi- 
tively without a rival. He was an admirable Lo- 
hengrin, and was the first singer in this part to 
vary the charm of the love music in the bridal duet 
by the judicious employment of a particularly 
lovely mezza voce. He was also excellent in 
Glinka's opera "La Vie pour le Czar," which he 
introduced to English audiences for the first time 
at Covent Garden in 1887. 

Eighteen hundred and seventy-nine was the busi- 
est musical year that I ever experienced in London. 
We had opera from January until July, and again 
from October to December. Carl Rosa set the ball 
rolling at Her Majesty's, producing "Rienzi" for 
the first time in England, and ' ' Carmen, ' ' with the 
piquant Selina Dolaro in the title-role, for the first 
time in the vernacular. Early in April, Covent 
Garden opened under the sole management of 
Ernest Gye, whose father had died from the effects 
of a gun accident in the preceding December. Here 
the peerless Adelina Patti once more headed the 
prime donne; Scalchi, still in her prime, was the 
principal contralto ; Gayarre, Nicolini, and Capoul 
were the leading tenors ; and to such barytones as 
Graziani, Cotogni, and Maurel was now added that 
superb singer Jean Lassalle, for whom was pro- 

101 



Thirty Years of 



duced Massenet's picturesque but unequal opera, 
1 'LeRoide Lahore." 

When Mr. Mapleson started at Her Majesty's 
toward the end of April it was with one of the 
strongest companies that he had ever brought to- 
gether. Christine Nilsson now at the finest period 
of her career led off a group of sopranos that 
included Minnie Hauk, Etelka Gerster, Clara 
Louise Kellogg, 1 Marie Roze, and, last but not least, 
Marie Vanzandt, a youthful debutante whose de- 
lightful singing as Zerlina and Amina took the 
London world completely by surprise. Trebelli, 
unapproachable as ever in her way, stood at the 
head of the contraltos; Campanini and Fancelli 
were the best tenors ; and among the barytones and 
basses were Del Puente, Galassi, Eota, Behrens, 
and Foli. Some of the artists here named also took 
part in the autumn season which Mr. Mapleson 
gave at the same opera-house in the Haymarket 
now, by the way, the site of Mr. Beerbohm Tree's 
theatre and the Carlton Hotel. 

Here let me refer, par parenthese, to the English 
debut of Edouard de Reszke. That event properly 
belongs to 1880, when he appeared for the first 
time at Covent Garden as Indra in "Le Eoi de 
Lahore." He was then about twenty-six, and his 
noble bass voice had already developed in full 

1 This charming American soprano passed an exceedingly brief 
portion of her operatic career in England. Her talents, however, 
were very warmly appreciated, and in her favorite roles she com- 
manded the heartiest admiration. 

IO2 



Musical Life in London 



splendor the richness of timbre and amplitude of 
volume for which it is remarkable. He lacked ex- 
perience, of course ; the art of later years was yet 
to come. Still, the sonority and grandeur of his 
tones were an unalloyed delight, notably in such 
parts as Basilio, St. Bris, Count Rodolfo, and 
Walter ("William Tell"), and he instantly won 
hearty favor. He returned regularly for the four 
succeeding seasons. 

In addition to the concerts of the old Philhar- 
monic Society, there were also those of the new 
Philharmonic, which in 1879, on the resignation 
of Dr. Wylde, came under the exclusive conductor- 
ship of Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and survived under his 
direction for several seasons longer. But in the 
concert world by far the most important event of 
1879 was the establishment of the famous Richter 
Concerts. They were the outcome of the Wagner 
Festival of two years before, and, as a matter of 
fact, were announced for this preliminary season 
as a series of three ' ( Orchestral Festival Concerts. ' ' 
In subsequent years, when it was palpable that 
Eichter had become a power in the land, the more 
ponderous title was relinquished, and double the 
number of concerts were given. 

The credit for the idea of starting the new un- 
dertaking was originally due to Herr Hermann 
Franke, a capable violinist (pupil of Joachim), who 
had been residing for some time in London, and 
who occasionally gave chamber concerts with the 
aid of Scharwenka, Robert Hausmann, and other 



Musical Life in London 



artists. Franke had been very useful to his friend 
Wilhelmj in the organization- of the Wagner 
Festival, and it occurred to him that profit could be 
reaped from the tremendous impression that Rich- 
ter's conducting had created at the Albert Hall. 
The result justified his expectation; two years 
later, at St. James's Hall, Richter's feat of con- 
ducting not only Wagnerian fragments but Bee- 
thoven symphonies entirely from memory fur- 
nished an absolute novelty, and created quite a sen- 
sation. Thenceforth, Hans Richter's popularity 
in England was assured, and his concerts, given 
once, and sometimes twice, every year, became a 
regular feature in the economy of London musi- 
cal life. 



106 



CHAPTER VI 

Musical critic of the " Sunday Times "The Duke of Cambridge 
and his journalistic sons Queen Victoria's music-loving aunt 
F. Paolo Tosti The Queen's "Master of the Musick "Her 
Majesty's musical library A State Concert at Buckingham 
Palace German opera in London Gounod conducts his 
"Redemption." 

I NOW pass to the period when I became critic 
of the fine old London weekly known as the 
"Sunday Times." This welcome rise in my jour- 
nalistic status came about by a stroke of pure luck. 
Late in the summer of 1881 the newspaper changed 
hands, and the new editor, anxious, no doubt, to 
show himself a man of action, promptly discharged 
every member of the literary staff. His procedure 
almost savored of heroism (of the Quixotic sort), 
for he was totally unsupplied with new men to 
take the place of those whom he had so needlessly 
dismissed. How, I should like to know, could he 
have hoped to find a more trustworthy dramatic 
critic than Joseph Knight, 1 or a more brilliant 
yet learned writer on musical subjects than the 
late Desmond L. Eyan, then also critic of the 
"Standard"? 

1 Critic for many years of the London " Globe" and "Athe- 
naeum," and present editor of ''Notes and Queries." 

107 



Thirty Years of 



However, the vacancy existed, and when Sep- 
tember arrived, and with it the date for the Nor- 
wich Festival, the "Sunday Times " had no ap- 
pointed critic to represent it at the East Anglian 
gathering. In this dilemma the over-hasty editor 
wrote to my Norwich uncle, the late Philip Soman, 
and asked him to recommend some one who could 
provide an article upon the festival. I was duly 
requested to essay the task. A few weeks later I 
was installed as the regular musical critic of the 
"Sunday Times/' which post I held continuously 
until I resigned it in November, 1901 a period of 
over twenty years. 

At first the responsibilities of my new position 
weighed somewhat heavily upon me. I had already 
won my spurs, it is true ; though only just twenty- 
five, I felt that I possessed the necessary knowledge 
and experience for my work. But it was no light 
matter to follow a clever (and then still living) 
writer like Desmond Ryan, who in turn had been 
preceded by the present doyen of English musical 
critics, Joseph Bennett (before his services were 
wholly required by the "Daily Telegraph "). Ere 
long, however, I was to receive definite assurance 
that the performance of my labors was command- 
ing satisfaction. 

It is not the public that decides in these cases. 
The readers of a paper are usually the last persons 
in the world that a British editor would consult 
concerning the merits or deficiencies of any writer 
upon his staff. As long as the critic writes 

108 



Musical Life in London 



decent English, avoids libel actions, and is not 
guilty of exposing a lack of technical knowledge 
of his subject, he has little to fear from his em- 
ployer. Strong or weak, fearless or indifferent, 
honest or venal, he will be permitted to go on pub- 
lishing his "copy" from one year's end to the 
other, until some such upheaval occurs as that 
which had landed me in my present position. The 
artist, the teacher, the cultivated amateur, the in- 
structed colleague in a word, those who do not 
care openly to find fault, even when they dare are 
alone capable of judging whether or not the critic 
has done his work well. And they are precisely 
the people whose opinion upon the question is 
rarely, if ever, asked. 

The "Sunday Times" again changed hands, for 
the second time in a twelvemonth; and, instead 
of being dismissed, I was requested to continue 
my duties with "undiminished energy and zeal." 
I was told that my work had won favorable notice 
in "exalted" quarters, and that if I cared to re- 
linquish the anonymous first person plural in favor 
of the singular, and sign articles with my own 
initials, I was at liberty to do so. I gladly adopted 
this course. Journalistic anonymity is advisable 
in dealing with politics and the general run of 
newspaper topics. But where art is concerned, I 
prefer to conform to the old French principle that 
the opinions of the paper should be put forth as 
those of an individual. 

It is no secret that the purchasers of the "Sun- 

III 



Thirty Years of 



day Times " in this instance were the three sons 
of the Duke of Cambridge Captain (now Rear- 
Admiral) FitzGeorge, Colonel Augustus Fitz- 
George, and Colonel George FitzGeorge. They all 
took a deep interest in the then varying fortunes 
of the paper, and Colonel George FitzGeorge per- 
sonally undertook the editorship, in addition to 
the even more onerous duties of dramatic critic. 1 
Frequently the three brothers would come down 
to the office on a Saturday evening and remain 
until the paper was ready to go to press. The 
Colonel had the true instincts of a journalist, and 
would write a bright, chatty article every week. 

The Duke of Cambridge himself, too, was evi- 
dently interested. I met his Royal Highness more 
than once at his son's house. Well do I recollect 
a certain New Year's eve, and the zest with which 
he joined in "Auld Lang Syne" after he had been 
sitting by the piano for nearly an hour listening 
to my songs. In his genuine love of music he fully 
shares a characteristic that distinguishes the whole 
of the royal family. Until a few years ago the 
Duke was a regular attendant at the opera. He 
preferred the stalls to the royal box, albeit, if the 
Princess of Wales (Queen Alexandra now) were 

a ln this branch, however, the Colonel soon found the work too 
heavy, and asked me to assist him, as far as I could do so without 
interfering with my musical duties. These contributions I signed 
with the nom de guerre of ' ' Avant-scene, " and for nearly three 
years (until the appointment of my friend Malcolm Salaman, a 
son of the composer) I was quite as closely identified with 
the theatrical as with the musical work of the paper. 



Musical Life in London 



present, lie would never fail to pay her Royal 
Highness a visit and enjoy a chat between the acts. 
One night, at a performance of "Don Giovanni, " 
I had the pleasure of sitting next the duke. His 
remarks upon the artists were full of sensible 
criticism. He found fault where censure was really 
deserved, and expressed a firm conviction that the 
"Mozart singers " of that day, with the exception 
of Patti and one or two others, were not to be com- 
pared to those whom he had heard in his boyhood. 
At this time the venerable Duchess of Cambridge, 
his Royal Highness 's mother, was still alive and 
residing at St. James's Palace, where our beloved 
Queen Victoria would visit her regularly on the 
rare occasions of her coming to London. Music 
was the soothing balm of the aged Duchess's de- 
clining days; and it was furnished almost ex- 
clusively by my friend, the well-known song- writer, 
F. Paolo Tosti. Every afternoon, toward tea-time, 
with the regularity of clockwork, Tosti would go 
to St. James's Palace and entertain the Duchess 
with that exquisite warbling 1 of his own charming 
songs, for which he was then enjoying such a re- 
markable vogue. I had already known him, but his 
intimacy with the FitzGeorges naturally tended to 
strengthen the bonds of friendship between us. I 
remember his telling me how sedulously the 

1 1 can find no better word to express the unique combination of 
perfect diction, of true Italian warmth and color, with the pe- 
culiarly poignant tones of the voix de compositeur, that character- 
ized Tosti 's singing twenty years ago. 



Thirty Years of 



musical columns of a certain paper were studied 
in the royal palaces every Sunday; and from some 
words graciously uttered to me by Princess Chris- 
tian many years afterward, I have reason to know 
that Tosti's statement was not mere flattery. 

Among my early contributions to the "Sunday 
Times " was an account of a State Concert at Buck- 
ingham Palace. It excited considerable curiosity, 
inasmuch as critics, I need scarcely say, are not ad- 
mitted to these functions ; indeed, I believe that the 
occasion I refer to was the last as well as the first 
upon which a description of a State Concert has 
ever been written and published by a musical jour- 
nalist. It was generally surmised at the time that I 
had obtained the privilege of entree through the in- 
fluence of my editor. That was not so. I owed it 
entirely to the kindness of the Queen's late "Mas- 
ter of the Musick," Sir William George Cusins, 
who consented to arrange for my presence, on con- 
dition that I would not reveal his share in the trans- 
action so long as he remained a court official. And 
he has now been dead some nine years. 

Cusins never realized it, but he was distinctly 
one of fortune's favorites. The fickle goddess 
smiled upon him from the day he won the King's 
Scholarship at the Eoyal Academy I think he 
actually won it twice, by the way. Throughout 
his career he regarded himself as an underesti- 
mated genius. 1 And yet, as the pupil of Sterndale 

1 This was, perhaps, because he felt a certain amount of dis- 
appointment in his aspirations as a composer. He wrote a good 

114 




FACSIMILE OF A STATE CONCERT PROGRAMME 



Musical Life in London 



Bennett and Sainton, he won success both as a 
pianist and a violinist ; he was at an early age ap- 
pointed organist to the Queen's private chapel; he 
was for sixteen years (1867 to 1883) conductor of 
the Philharmonic Society; he was honored in vari- 
ous ways by the leading foreign musical societies ; 
and in 1892 he was added to the select list of 
musical knights. The post of " Master of the Mu- 
sick" to the sovereign, to which he was appointed 
in 1870, carried with it many privileges, while its 
duties included those of conductor of the Queen's 
private band, as well as of director of the State 
Concerts. One might have justly thought that Sir 
William Cusins was the most contented musician 
in the land. That he was not mattered little; his 
dissatisfaction was carefully concealed from all 
but his best friends, and a temper that could rage 
at white heat was, as a rule, effectually concealed 
beneath a calm, dignified exterior and the manners 
of a refined gentleman. 

One day he asked me whether I would care to 
see the musical library of Queen Victoria at Buck- 
ingham Palace. I accepted with the utmost 
pleasure, and spent a couple of delightful hours 

deal; his compositions comprising an oratorio, "Gideon/' a 
"Te Deum," a symphony, two overtures, concertos for piano 
and violin, several chamber works, and songs; besides a "Koyal 
Wedding Serenata" written for the wedding of the Prince and 
Princess of Wales in 1863, and a "Koyal Jubilee Cantata'* writ- 
ten for the jubilee of Queen Victoria in 1887. Yet, probably the 
last thing that English amateurs would have thought of doing 
was to regard Cusins as a composer. 

117 



Thirty Years of 



with him looking through the treasures of that in- 
teresting collection. He showed me, among other 
valuable manuscripts, one of the original scores of 
the "Messiah," on which he had shortly before 
published a remarkably clever brochure, throwing 
considerable light upon the details of Handel's in- 
strumentation. i ' I am now engaged, ' ' he told me, 
"in compiling a catalogue of this wonderful collec- 
tion. Her Majesty has granted me permission, and 
I hope in good time to be able to let the world know 
what a mass of precious manuscripts and scores 
and musical works of all kinds there are in the 
Queen 's library. ' ' Whether or not that project was 
carried out before his death I am unable to say. If 
not, perhaps his successor, Sir Walter Parratt, will 
undertake to complete it. 

After our visit to the library, Cusins took me 
through the handsome reception-rooms of the 
palace. It was then that I conceived the idea of 
asking permission to accompany him once to a 
State Concert. At first he replied that it would be 
impossible, but after a moment's reflection said, 
"Well, I fancy I might manage it if you don't 
mind coming as a member of the chorus." I an- 
swered that I should be only too happy. "Then 
I will send you a 'command' to attend rehearsal at 
nine o'clock on the morning of the next concert, 
and all you have to do is to be sure that at night 
you wear a white waistcoat. I wear court dress, 
and the band have their own uniform of black with 
gold buttons ; but the chorus are distinguished by 

118 



Musical Life in London 



nothing more elaborate than a white waistcoat with 
ordinary evening dress. " So everything was ar- 
ranged, and before we parted I readily gave the 
requisite promise of secrecy. 

Though magnificent to the eye, and a sight gor- 
geous and dazzling beyond my powers of descrip- 
tion, nevertheless I found that State Concert at 
Buckingham Palace one of the slowest and most 
dispiriting functions that it was ever my lot to wit- 
ness. From my place in the orchestral gallery I 
commanded a perfect view of the entire assem- 
blage. The Queen was, of course, not present. 1 
Her Majesty was represented by the Prince of 
Wales, who, with the Princess of Wales and the 
other members of the royal family, occupied seats 
not in front, as formerly had been the custom, 
but upon a high dais at the extreme end of the vast 
ball-room. At the back of the royal group sat or 
stood a semicircle of high officers of state and ladies 
and gentlemen of the household. The general com- 
pany were ranged upon either side of the room, 
facing each other, in rows five or six deep ; and be- 
tween them was a gangway or passage broad 
enough to keep the royal view of the performers en- 
tirely free from obstruction. 

The concert began at 11 P.M. with the singing 
of the national anthem. At that moment, as all 
present rose to their feet, the coup d'ceil was su- 

1 Queen Victoria never attended either a State Concert or a 
State Ball at Buckingham Palace after the death of the Prince 
Consort in 1861. 



119 






Thirty Years of 



perb in the extreme. The women, in court dress 
with nodding plumes and sparkling tiaras, their 
corsages positively coruscating with jewels and 
gems of every description ; the men, in their various 
court, naval, and military uniforms, their breasts 
covered with the ribands and stars of countless 
orders; the beautiful tapestries and hangings, the 
sumptuous decoration of walls and ceiling, and the 
brilliantly lighted chandeliers all combined to 
present a profusion and wealth of color, a superb 
effect of delicate grandeur, such as no court in Eu- 
rope could surpass. But beyond that, what? the 
dullest sort of musical show that can be imagined. 
True, the artists were some of the best available; 
but the selection of pieces was necessarily of the 
miscellaneous or ad captandum order, and fol- 
lowed the preference at that time for any but 
English music. Above all, by the rules of court 
etiquette applause was strictly forbidden. Number 
succeeded number without the least token of appre- 
ciation; each, in turn, ending amid a silence that 
could not have been more profound had the locale 
been a church or the audience a gathering of the 
deaf and dumb. 

Applause being the "salt," not only of the ar- 
tist's existence, but of any musical performance, it 
naturally follows that its elimination from a State 
Concert leaves the whole thing tasteless and insipid 
from the artist's point of view. Only at the close 
of the programme did vitality and spontaneity 
characterize the proceedings. For then the l ' royal- 

I 2O 



Musical Life in London 



ties" descended from the dais, and, with stately 
tread and bows right and left, walked the entire 
length of the apartment toward the expectant or- 
chestra. Then the singers, who had already de- 
scended from the platform, received from gracious 
lips the words of praise and thanks that assured 
them they had done well. It was, for them, by far 
the sweetest morsel of the entertainment. The com- 
pliments over, the royal personages retired, and 
the company dispersed, some to the supper-room; 
others to some ball or late reception elsewhere. 
For my own part, I waited patiently and discreetly 
in the background until I caught the eye of the 
i ' Master of the Musick. ' ' He beckoned me to him, 
took me by the arm, and, without a word, led me 
along a labyrinth of corridors and passages; I 
thought it was to let me quietly out by a side door, 
and was preparing to say " Good-night, " when 
suddenly, to my astonishment, I found myself in 
a spacious and comfortable room in which, at a 
large round table, just ready to begin supper, were 
seated the principal artists who had taken part in 
the concert! "So much," thought I, "for the 
chance of keeping secret who brought me here!" 
But Cusins was both sensible and discreet, and his 
manner possessed that air of importance and au- 
thority which would have carried conviction be- 
fore a whole posse of court officials. "Ladies and 
gentlemen," he said in his most impressive tones, 
"permit me to beg that you will make room for 
our friend Mr. Klein. I have been requested [it 

123 



Thirty Years of 



might have been by the Queen herself] to see that 
he does not leave the palace until he has enjoyed 
a good supper in your company. " And I did en- 
joy it thoroughly. That convivial gathering was 
for me by far the pleasantest feature of the State 
Concert. 

Eighteen hundred and eighty- two was London's 
great Wagner year. Hitherto we had been slowly 
paving the way only. Now, with almost startling 
suddenness, the metropolis found itself the scene of 
two weighty enterprises which were destined to 
give an even stronger fillip to the spread of the 
Bayreuth master's art than his own visit in 1877. 

To be candid, the double dose, taken well-nigh 
simultaneously, proved rather too heavy. for the 
receptive capacity of the general public. But the 
German community again rallied in brave numbers 
to this musical call from the Fatherland, and, alike 
with money and plaudits, proffered substantial 
support to the cause. 

Early in the year a troupe had been formed by 
Herr Angelo Neumann for the purpose of perform- 
ing "Der Eing des Nibelungen" in the leading 
cities of Germany, Austria, Holland, England, and 
Italy. The months of May and June were chosen 
for the London visit, and Her Majesty's Theatre 
was engaged. In all, four cycles of the tetralogy 
were given. Of these I attended two, and then for 
the first time felt that I was beginning to obtain 
an insight into the real scope and meaning of this 
gigantic work. The casts included not a few of 

124 



Musical Life in London 



the famous artists who had taken part in the initial 
representation of the "Ring" at Bayreuth in 
1876, among them Niemann, Unger, the Vogls, 
Hill, Schlosser, and Lilli Lehmann (who sang 
Woglinde, Helmwige, and the "Bird" music); 
with that admirable artist, Reicher-Kindermann, as 
Brunnhilde. The conductor was the lamented An- 
ton Seidl, who then made his first appearance in 
London. He at once won the high approval of con- 
noisseurs by the skill which he displayed with by 
no means first-rate material in bringing out with 
clearness, refinement, and intellectuality the beau- 
ties of Wagner's colossal score. It was through 
no fault of Seidl 's that the representations were at 
many points open to criticism; nor, we may be 
equally sure, was he responsible for the number of 
extensive "cuts" which disfigured the last two 
of the four music-dramas. 

The unexpected announcement of "German 
Opera at Drury Lane" during the same months 
owed its origin, in the first place, to the extraor- 
dinary success previously earned by the celebrated 
Meiningen troupe at that house ; and, in the second, 
to the renewed activity of Hermann Franke, who, 
elated by the good fortune that had attended the 
Richter concerts, had prevailed upon Herr Pollini 
to arrange with Augustus Harris for a series of 
performances at Drury Lane, by the entire troupe 
of the Hamburg Opera House, and with the very 
popular Viennese chef-d'orchestre, Hans Richter, 
as principal conductor. It turned out, from every 

I2 5 



Thirty Years of 



point of view, a remarkable achievement. The rare 
excellence of these performances doubly valuable 
in that they presented under perfect conditions 
difficult operas mostly new or unfamiliar to Eng- 
lish audiences has never been forgotten by any 
who witnessed them. They created a new standard, 
a new mental perspective, not only for the rising 
generation of opera-goers, but for those critics 
whose insular experiences had been confined exclu- 
sively to the lyric art of the Italian and French 
schools. Henceforward, we were to understand 
what was signified by Wagnerian declamation and 
diction superimposed upon a correct vocal method, 
as distinguished from mere shouting and a persist- 
ent sacrifice either of the word to the tone or of the 
tone to the word. 

These inestimable traditions were exemplified 
with marvelous fidelity and force by the Hamburg 
artists, who, be it noted, comprised at that time 
several whose rare merit was subsequently to earn 
for them world-wide reputations. Imagine the ad- 
vantage of hearing * ' Tristan und Isolde ' ' and l i Die 
Meistersinger" for the first time with such a noble 
singer and actress as Rosa Sucher as Isolde and 
Eva; with such a glorious Tristan and Walther as 
Winkelmann; with the famous Marianne Brandt 
as Brangaene; with that fine barytone, Gura, as 
Konig Marfce and Hans Sachs! Those artists were 
then in their prime, and sang their music as few 
German singers have sung it since as, indeed, it 
could have been sung only by artists trained in the 

126 



Musical Life in London 



purest of vocal schools. We also had splendid 
revivals of Beethoven's "Fidelio," with the de- 
lightful Therese Malten as Leonora; of Weber's 
"Der Freischiitz" and "Euryanthe"; and, natur- 
ally, of the ' ' Fliegende Hollander, ' " l Tannhauser, ' ' 
and "Lohengrin." How these operas were con- 
ducted hy Hans Richter I need hardly say. Enough 
that the ensemble was superb and the mise en scene, 
generally speaking, beyond reproach. The esthetic 
effect of the entire season was in the highest de- 
gree beneficial. It also proved to be entirely free 
from financial loss, a fact which no doubt induced 
the similar undertaking at Covent Garden two 
years later, when Richter was again conductor. 
But the success in that instance was not nearly so 
marked. The time when German opera should take 
abiding root in the affections of the London public 
was yet to come. 

In the autumn of 1882 Gounod came to England 
to conduct the first performance of his fine sacred 
work, ' i The Redemption. ' ' He was no stranger 
to London. One of the refugees of 1870, he had 
made a stay there of considerable duration, and 
among other pieces brought out his cantata "Gal- 
lia," which he conducted at the opening of the 
Royal Albert Hall in 1871. Even previous to 
this, however, he had sketched his design for the 
work which he labeled "Opus vitae meae," and 
there is ample evidence that he spent, from first 
to last, upward of a dozen years upon the score 
of "The Redemption." Having arranged with 

I 29 



Thirty Years of 



Messrs. Novello & Co. for its publication (at the 
highest price ever paid at that time for an ora- 
torio), Gounod arrived late in September to super- 
intend the final rehearsals for its production at 
the Birmingham Festival. This was the last 
of the Midland gatherings over which Sir Michael 
Costa presided, and I owed to him the honor 
of a personal introduction to the composer of 
" Faust, " who was then sixty- four years of 
age. 

Gounod was one of the most fascinating men I 
have ever spoken with. His manner had a charm 
that was irresistible, and his kindly eyes, soft and 
melting as a woman's, would light up with a smile, 
now tender, now humorous, that fixed itself inef- 
faceably upon the memory. He could speak Eng- 
lish fairly well, but preferred his own language, in 
which he was a brilliant conversationalist ; and he 
could use to advantage a fund of keen, ready wit. 
He was influenced at that time by a recrudescence 
of that religious mysticism which had so strongly 
characterized his youthful career; but his tone, 
though earnest and thoughtful when he was dwell- 
ing upon his art, could brighten up with the light- 
ness and gaiety of a true Parisian. He was rather 
upset, on the morning of the London band rehearsal 
at St. George's Hall, by the numerous mistakes in 
the parts, which led to frequent stoppages. The 
trouble reached a climax in the " March to Cal- 
vary," where, after about the ninth or tenth stop, 
Gounod turned to Costa and remarked : 

130 



Musical Life in London 



"Seulement ici puis-je pardonner tous ces arrets, 
quoiqu'ils gatent ma musique." 

"Pourquoi cela?" inquired Sir Michael. 

' l Parceque, ' ' replied Gounod, "a ce point il y 
a douze stations, et a chaque station il faut natu- 
rellement un arret. " 

After all the typographical and other errors had 
been rectified, the march 'was tried through again 
and went so magnificently as to arouse the master's 
undisguised admiration, which deepened with as- 
tonishment when Costa informed him that the in- 
strumentalists had never seen a note of the music 
until that morning. Gounod said to me later, 
"They are wonderful readers, these English play- 
ers. There is scarcely a mistake that is due to inac- 
curate deciphering of the notes. And what makes 
it even more remarkable is that my work is so full 
of awkward chromatic progressions." I ventured 
to observe that since he was last in London our 
orchestras had been turning their attention some- 
what extensively to Wagner. 

Gounod retorted quickly, "Yes, I know that. 
But you will not tell me that Wagner's four 
semitones in i Tristan' or his slurred runs (notes 
coulees) in ' Tannhauser ' require more delicate care 
than my ' framework of the augmented fifth.' >M 
I thought I detected a slight touch of scorn in his 
voice, and made no attempt to argue the point. 

1 An allusion to the peculiar harmonic structure which the com- 
poser had avowedly employed as the predominant feature of the 
accompanying chords in the ' ' Eedemption. ' ' 



Musical Life in London 



At that same rehearsal Gounod did an unusual 
amount of singing. The solo vocalists comprised 
what the new critic of the " Times/' Dr. Francis 
Hueff er, was then fond of describing as the ' * repre- 
sentative English quartet " Albani, Patey, Ed- 
ward Lloyd, and Santley ; nor have I forgotten how 
exquisitely William H. Cummings (now principal 
of the Guildhall School of Music, London) delivered 
the touching phrase allotted to the Penitent Thief. 
But, as a matter of fact, Gounod, with his sympa- 
thetic voix de compositeur, was singing more or 
less all through the rehearsal, wisely exercising his 
rare faculty for impressing his exact ideas upon the 
interpreters of his music. And what beautiful 
music it was ! What a tremendous effect it created 
at Birmingham ! So deeply was Gounod impressed 
by his triumph there, that, long before the "Re- 
demption ' ' had been produced in Paris, he set about 
writing his second great sacred work, "Mors et 
Vita," for the Birmingham Festival of 1885. He 
was paid an even larger price for this than for 
its predecessor (I believe the exact sum was 4000 
$20,000), and he fully intended to come over to 
conduct it. In the meanwhile, however, an action 
had been brought against him in the English courts 
by Mrs. Weldon, and, inasmuch as he was mulcted 
in heavy damages, the composer deemed that ' ' dis- 
cretion is the better part of valor," and stayed at 
home in Paris. He never ventured across the Chan- 
nel again; but I saw him in his native city three 
years later, as will be related in due time. 

132 



CHAPTER VII 

Augustus Harris: actor, metteur en scene, dramatic author, 
theatrical manager, operatic impresario A great stage- 
manager and his military aide Harris and Carl Rosa Eng- 
lish opera flourishes at Drury Lane Arthur Goring Thomas 
Alexander C. Mackenzie "Esmeralda." "Colomba," and 
"Nadeshda." 

ENTER Augustus Harris! For some time al- 
ready has the figure of the well-known impre- 
sario been looming large upon the operatic horizon 
of these pages, and it is not only just but expedient 
that he should now make his actual entry. Accu- 
rately speaking, I am aware that his formal mana- 
gerial connection with opera dates only from 1887. 
He himself, however, would probably have dated it 
from his cradle. "My father was stage-manager 
at Covent Garden, ' ' he would say ; i ' and if any in- 
fant ever stage-managed his father, I was that in- 
fant. Almost as soon as I could run alone he used 
to take me with him to the theatre. I remember 
quite well, as a little boy, standing in the wings as 
he walked about the stage, while the great prima 
donnas came and petted and kissed me. ' ' This was 
in the " sixties, " when Augustus Harris, Sr., was 
staging the heavy Meyerbeer revivals, and when 
that brilliant star, Adelina Patti, had not long been 



Thirty Years of 



shining in the operatic firmament. It is only liter- 
ally true, therefore, to say that the youthful Au- 
gustus, or "Gus," as all his friends were wont to 
call him, was reared in the very atmosphere of the 
coulisses. 

He was educated both in France and in Ger- 
many, and, as a matter of course, he went con- 
stantly to the theatres in both countries. After his 
return to England at the age of seventeen, one of 
his first essays as an actor was to play the part of 
the boy in "Pink Dominoes, " under (Sir) Charles 
Wyndham's management, at the Criterion. His 
earliest acquaintance with the duties of an operatic 
stage-manager was when he accompanied the Ma- 
pleson troupe round the British provinces in that 
capacity. The experience was invaluable; but his 
chief ambition was to become lessee of Drury 
Lane Theatre; and, with the assistance of his fa- 
ther-in-law, he was enabled to fulfil that desire 
when he had barely attained legal age. His first 
pantomime and his first "autumn drama ." were 
both successful, and ere a year had passed he could 
boast that he was paying his way at a theatre 
which had "spelled ruin" for more than one astute 
manager. 

With the dramatic productions of Augustus 
Harris I am not concerned. I have simply stated 
the above facts in order to show the association of 
the musical and theatrical elements in his nature 
at the earliest period of his career. It must have 
been late in 1878 or early in 1879 when I was 

136 



Musical Life in London 



introduced to this remarkable man one night at the 
Green Koom Club. The youthful Drury Lane man- 
ager was full of life and high spirits, and I found 
it very amusing to listen to his vivacious chatter. 
We had not been talking two minutes before the 
subject turned on opera for even then, as in after 
years, it was his favorite topic. Why, he wanted 
to know, should London be worse off than the small 
German cities, where the theatres were subsidized 
and opera was being performed nearly the whole 
year round? Why was the English press power- 
less in this matter? Or was the press merely in- 
different, like the people whose opinions and wishes 
it was supposed to voice 1 I told him I thought that 
neither the cities nor the people were indifferent, 
but that the love of opera had not yet become in- 
grained in the hearts of the nation ; while, as to the 
question of state support, I was doubtful whether 
as good results would be derived from it as from 
individual enterprise working upon independent 
lines and combining artistic with commercial con- 
sideration to the fullest practicable extent. And 
then followed a very pretty argument, which lasted 
well into the l ' small hours. ' ' 

Augustus Harris was even then a being of extra- 
ordinary temperament ; brimming over with energy 
and new ideas, fond of innovations, impatient of 
the smallest delay in carrying out a project; the 
strangest imaginable mixture of conceit and mod- 
esty, rashness and discretion, extravagance and 
common sense. He had the gift of imagination in 

J 37 



Thirty Years of 



an uncommon degree, and from the outset he 
seemed to have the faculty of surrounding himself 
with clever " heads of departments, ' ' with useful 
assistants and with loyal friends. He was neither 
a first-rate raconteur, nor even a fluent speaker, but 
he loved to "rattle on" upon a subject that inter- 
ested him, and he would invariably lead the laugh 
over his own jokes. In disposition he was honest, 
frank, and kindly in the extreme, and he was gen- 
erous to a fault. Such, briefly, was the character 
of the man who was subsequently to be responsible 
for the renaissance of opera in England. And such, 
with slight developments and few changes, it re- 
mained until the close of his life. Toward the end 
he grew more ready to listen to the voice of gossip, 
and to trust his own judgment less than that of his 
immediate entourage. Nevertheless, so correct 
were his perceptions in most things, that he made 
less than ten per cent, of the errors credited to him 
by his critics. 

If Harris inherited his father's genius as a met- 
teur en scene, he brought to it something more. He 
possessed much higher powers of organization. He 
had a wholesome capacity for disregarding stupid 
and worn-out traditions. He learned a great deal 
from the German stage-managers, and especially 
from the Meiningen troupe which he brought to 
Drury Lane. The moving and the grouping of 
the street crowds in the Meiningen production of 
"Julius Caesar" were simply marvelous, and Au- 
gustus Harris was wise enough to make the most 

138 



Musical Life in London 



of that object-lesson. He applied it to every branch 
of his work pantomime, melodrama, comic opera, 
and, last but not least, grand opera. Where he 
felt that special technical advice and aid were 
necessary, he was satisfied with none save the best. 
During the preparation of one of his autumn 
dramas (I think it was " Human Nature") I went 
to Drury Lane while a rehearsal was in progress, 
and sat down in the stalls to watch the training 
of an army of supers in an imaginary fight with 
some African natives. In due course this was fol- 
lowed by a home-coming and a triumphal march 
through Trafalgar Square, with the hero (dear old 
Henry Neville) at the head of his victorious com- 
pany. The whole business was splendidly done. 

Actively assisting the manager in these opera- 
tions was a gentleman in a frock coat and tall hat, 
of undeniably military appearance, who impressed 
me both by his quiet, masterful manner and the 
imperturbable patience with which he directed 
manoeuvres to be repeated over and over again 
until they were satisfactorily executed. After the 
rehearsal was concluded I went upon the stage. 
Augustus Harris was talking to his military ad- 
viser. He beckoned me to approach. " Klein, I 
want to introduce you to my friend Major Kit- 
chener, who has been kind enough to come and help 
me with this ' soldiering' work. What do you think 
of it ? Did you ever see such fighting and marching 
on the stage before?" I certainly never had, and 
I offered my congratulations. They were accepted, 

139 



Thirty Years of 



with a murmur of thanks and a shake of the hand, 
by the man who was afterward to be the hero of 
Omdurman and the victor in the great South 
African war. He had gladly consented to place his 
knowledge and experience at the disposal of the 
popular theatrical manager. 

The art-union of Augustus Harris and Carl Rosa 
was an outcome of an affinity of a peculiar mag- 
netism which brought together men who had ideas 
in common and could definitely work them out 
to their mutual gain and for the benefit of the 
world at large. Alas ! their partnership was all too 
brief. What it would have achieved had it endured 
another ten or fifteen years, I will not attempt to 
guess, though undoubtedly it would have set opera 
upon a far more solid and exalted pedestal than 
it occupies in England at the present moment. 
Still, as it was, it accomplished much. The Carl 
Rosa seasons at Drury Lane marked a distinct for- 
ward stride in the progress of opera in the ver- 
nacular, particularly in the evidence that they af- 
forded of the existence of a school of young British 
composers imbued with genuine talent and evincing 
an unsuspected mastery of the modern forms now 
essential to appreciation and success. More than 
this, the association of the two managers helped to 
develop the artistic side of the younger man, and 
to mature the aspirations which eventually were 
realized in the brilliant opera revival of 1887. 

It was at Easter, 1883, that Carl Rosa inau- 
gurated his first season at Drury Lane. He must 

140 



Musical Life in London 



have felt it a great relief to be able to depend upon 
his new partner for the administration of all mat- 
ters relating to the stage management and mise en 
scene departments which he had hitherto kept en- 
tirely under his own personal control. Since 1880 
he had been assisted in the work of conducting by 
Mr. Randegger, who was now relinquishing much 
of his time as a teacher for, what was to him, the 
more pleasurable occupation of wielding the baton. 
Every branch of the undertaking was carefully 
supervised. The band and chorus were specially 
augmented, and the company was an excellent one. 

Under these favorable circumstances, two new 
operas by English composers were brought to a 
hearing, namely, Arthur Goring Thomas's "Esme- 
ralda ' ' and Alexander C. Mackenzie 's ' ' Colomba. ' ' 
It was purely an experiment, and Carl Rosa him- 
self had little faith in its success. I remember his 
saying: "I look upon this as a duty that I owe to 
native art, and not as a business speculation. Mind, 
both these operas are interesting and beautiful, or 
I should not have accepted them. But they are 
by British composers by men whose names are 
hardly known to the public. How, then, can I dare 
hope they will succeed ?" And yet they did suc- 
ceed "Esmeralda" by virtue of graceful, emo- 
tional strains allied to a moving and ever-effective 
drama; " Colomba " on the strength of musical 
merits that overcome, temporarily at least, the 
incubus of a clumsy and ponderous libretto. 

"Esmeralda," indeed, made quite a hit from the 



Thirty Years of 



first. l ' Who is Goring Thomas I 9 ' people began to 
ask. Musicians knew him as a Royal Academy stu- 
dent who had finished his education in Paris, and 
had become so intensely imbued with the manner- 
isms of Gounod and Massenet that he was prac- 
tically incapable of putting music to any but French 
lyrics. 1 His cantata "The Sun- Worshipers, " pro- 
duced at the Norwich Festival of 1881, was so un- 
original that, despite its evident talent, it had 
barely escaped ridicule. "Esmeralda" showed an 
immense advance, and in later years its charm was 
potent enough to attract the favorable notice of 
Jean de Reszke, Lassalle, and Melba, who appeared 
in a revised version of the opera in French at Co- 
vent Garden and also in New York. The original 
English cast, however, was not to be despised: 
Georgina Burns as Esmeralda, Clara Perry (now 
Mrs. Ben Davies) as Fleur de Lys, Barton Mc- 
Guckin as Phoebus, James Ludwig as Claude 
Frollo, Ben Davies (making his debut in opera) as 
Gringoire, and Leslie Crotty as Quasimodo a 
first-rate ensemble. The libretto was by Messrs. 
Alberto Randegger and Theo. Marzials, the former 
of whom conducted the performance, and later 
superintended the production of the opera at 
Cologne. 

The contrast between "Esmeralda" and "Co- 
lomba" was very striking; the methods of the two 

1 He told me this himself for a fact. It took him years to 
learn how to handle English poetry, and he never thoroughly mas- 
tered the knack of doing so. 

142 



Musical Life in London 



composers were "wide as the poles asunder. " 
That of A. C. Mackenzie's was as unmistakably 
Teutonic as Goring Thomas's was purely Gallic. 
The subjects both had been taken from French 
sources ; and, sombre though it might be, there was 
no reason why Prosper MerimeVs "Colomba" 
should not have furnished material for an opera- 
book quite as effective as his "Carmen." But, 
whereas the authors of "Esmeralda" continually 
introduced bright relief in their opera, Dr. Francis 
Hueffer in "Colomba" sought to emphasize only 
the darker episodes of the Corsican vendetta, while 
carrying his craze for accurate "local color" to 
an extreme that bordered upon the absurd. At 
that time there was no gainsaying the dictum of 
the critic of the "Times" particularly when he 
trudged about the stage at rehearsal, umbrella in 
hand, now communicating his ideas to the perform- 
ers, now "laying down the law" across the foot- 
lights to the poor composer, who sat in his place 
in the orchestra patiently awaiting the pleasure 
of his autocratic collaborator. Yet, thanks simply 
to the beauty of the music (the orchestration 
was especially fine), "Colomba" made its mark 
with the more cultivated section of the public, and 
opened the eyes of the critics to the rare talent of 
the Scottish musician who, five years later, was to 
succeed Sir George Macfarren as principal of the 
Royal Academy of Music. The title-role was ad- 
mirably created by Alwina Valleria; Barton Mc- 
Guckin played the hero, Orso; and that capital 



Thirty Years of 



basso, Franco Novara, whose real name was Nash, 
was also in the cast. 

The success of these operas made a deep im- 
pression upon Carl Rosa and Augustus Harris. 
They began to see that there was a future in store 
for the rising English school. The two composers 
were each commissioned to write another opera; 
and meanwhile, in 1884, a work more genuinely 
English than either "Esmeralda" or "Colomba" 
namely, "The Canterbury Pilgrims" of Villiers 
Stanford was brought out at Drury Lane with 
marked success. The name of Mackenzie also de- 
rived wide prominence that year through the tri- 
umph of his fine oratorio, "The Rose of Sharon, " 
at the Norwich Festival, 1 which resulted in his be- 
ing requested to write a work ("The Story of 
Sayid") for the Leeds Festival of 1886. With so 
much to do, no wonder Goring Thomas was ready 
before him with a new opera. The composer of 
"Esmeralda" had been fortunate enough to dis- 
cover a new librettist in Mr. Julian Sturgis, an 
American litterateur unknown to fame in England, 
who had submitted a promising scenario upon a 
Russian subject. The title of the new opera was 
"Nadeshda." Goring Thomas devoted the best 
part of 1884 to writing the music, and it was an- 

1 Always to be remembered as the occasion of the de"but in 
England of Miss Emma Nevada, who, in order to identify herself 
completely with her part, appeared at the concert as the Eose of 
Sharon, wearing a pink costume, with pink hat and gloves, and 
with her copy of the oratorio bound in the same soft tint in fact, 
everything couleur de rose! 

146 



Musical Life in London 



nounced for production at Drury Lane in April, 
1885. Unusual secrecy was observed with regard 
to the work, almost as much, in fact, as in the case 
of a new Savoy opera, hut I persuaded the com- 
poser to lend me an advance copy of the hook, and 
published a notice of the story in the "Sunday 
Times. ' ' This evoked the following letter from the 
ever-nervous Carl Rosa: 

10 WARWICK CRESCENT, MAIDA HILL, W. 

24th March, 1885. 
DEAR KLEIN: 

I saw the "Nadeshda" plot to-day, and must confess 
it is admirably written. But where did you get the ma- 
terial from from an artist, eh? I have only this morn- 
ing sent words of the tenor song now to be sung to the 
printer's, and did not want to get copies in the hands 
of the press before the book was complete. 

Sincerely yours, 

CARL EOSA. 

"Nadeshda" made an instantaneous success. It 
was pronounced immeasurably stronger than "Es- 
meralda, ' ' the music showing a wonderful advance 
alike in originality and dramatic grip. Hand- 
somely staged by Augustus Harris, splendidly sung 
by Alwina Valleria, Josephine Yorke, Barton Mc- 
Guckin, and Leslie Grotty, it achieved the hit of 
the season and evoked eulogies that must have de- 
lighted the soul of the modest composer. During 
the following autumn and winter, "Nadeshda" was 
brought out in several Continental cities, and, 

147 



Thirty Years of 



knowing how little Goring Thomas sought adver- 
tisement on these occasions, I used to take plea- 
sure in letting him know what was going on. Oc- 
casionally he would come to me for information; 
as when he sent me this letter : 

RATTON, WILLINGDON, SUSSEX, 

January 9, 1886. 
MY DEAR KLEIN : 

I heard accidentally this morning from Mme. Viardot 1 
that ' ' Nadeshda ' ' is going to be given in Berlin. Can you 
tell me when ? Her late pupil, Mile. Leisinger, is to sing 
the soprano part, and wrote to her to ask where she 
could get a score. I have not heard anything about it, 
and should be very glad if you could give me any news. 
Please send your reply to 52 Wimpole Street, as I am 
coming up on Saturday. . 

With best wishes for the New Year, believe me, 
Yours truly, 

A. GORING THOMAS. 

Mackenzie was less lucky in his second attempt. 
Again he had the misfortune to be hampered by 
one of Dr. Hueffer's elephantine librettos. Hence 
"The Troubadour, ' ' with its ghastly climax, 
wherein the erring heroine is compelled by her hus- 
band to drink a goblet filled with the blood of the 
fascinating Guillem de Cabestanh, proved too much 
for even those who admired the melodic charm and 
dramatic power of the music. This was the novelty 



1 Pauline Viardot-Garcia, the famous singer and teacher, then re- 
siding in Paris, a great friend of the young English composer. 



148 




I S 




Musical Life in London 



for 1886. Not much more successful was Mr. Fred- 
eric Corder's "Nordisa" in the following year; 
but the ball by now had been fairly set rolling, and 
the public, both in London and the provinces, had 
awakened to the fact that there were native com- 
posers equal to the task of writing operas to which 
the world would listen. By what chain of untoward 
circumstances the progress of this native movement 
was impeded, if not stopped altogether, will be 
made clear later. But let me say here that the 
"unkindest cut of all" was the premature and 
tragic death 1 of the gifted Arthur Goring Thomas, 
one of the most lovable men, one of the most 
inspired lyrical writers, and one of the most ear- 
nest, painstaking musicians that England ever pro- 
duced. 

1 In the autumn of 1891 he sustained a severe fall, from the 
effects of which he never altogether recovered. On the evening 
of March 20, 1892, he committed suicide by throwing himself 
under a train at the West Hampstead station of the Metropolitan 
Railway. 



CHAPTER VIII 

Decay of old Italian opera Rise of the young Italian school 
Masterly mismanagement and financial collapse at Covent 
Garden Pauline Lucca A notable dinner-party Marcella 
Sembrich's surprise Antonin Dvorak relates the story of his 
romantic career Camille Saint-Saens The French master 
and English oratorio. 

THE history of Italian opera in London during 
the middle "eighties" is a history of "de- 
cline and fall." As the fortunes of English and 
German opera improved, so did the glorious 
"palmy days" of the older school recede deeper 
and deeper into the shadows of the past. There 
is no need to dwell at length upon this process of 
deterioration; the causes thereof are well known 
and understood. I shall note rather the events 
which ever and anon revived the flickering embers 
and kept them burning until finally the requisite 
fuel arrived from a new and unsuspected source. 

Interest was keenly excited by the production 
at Her Majesty's, in July, 1880, of Boito's "Mefis- 
tofele." The work had been much talked of 
since its revival, in revised form, at Bologna in 
1875, and Mr. Mapleson took creditable pains to 
mount it in such fashion that there should be 
few loopholes for criticism. Truth to tell, it was 



Musical Life in London 



an exceedingly good representation all round. 
Christine Nilsson 's embodiment of the dual role of 
Margherita and Helen of Troy had much of poetry 
and charm; Trebelli was as fascinating and artis- 
tic as ever in the contralto parts ; Campanini made 
an excellent Faust; and Nannetti lent rare sardonic 
color and alertness to the part of Mefistofele. Sir 
Michael Costa was still vigorous enough to conduct 
Boito's opera in his old resolute, vigilant manner; 
and very delighted he was over its success, which 
lent quite a special distinction to the season. 

At this time there was little thought of a " young 
Italian school." Nevertheless, Verdi had been si- 
lent since "Aida"; 1 and the success of Boi'to was 
bound to draw attention to the claims of Ponchi- 
elli. The Cremonese musician had been writing 
and bringing out operas for a quarter of a century, 
two of which at least " I Lituani" and "La Gio- 
conda" had met with emphatic favor in Italy. 
Mr. Ernest Gye now determined to try "La Gio- 
conda" at Covent Garden ; and he produced it there 
in May, 1883, before a crowded and demonstrative 
house. A fine cast was engaged Gay arre as Enzo, 
Cotogni as Barnciba, Edouard de Eeszke as Alvise, 
Scalchi as La Cieca, and an American soprano, Ma- 
rie Durand, who had already won fame in Italy, as 
the heroine, La Gioconda. The opera was warmly 
received, and for a few representations drew good 
houses. It never became as lastingly popular, 
however, as either "Aida" or "Mefistofele," in 

1 Originally brought out at Cairo in December, 1871. 



Thirty Years of 



the former of which, by the way, Josephine de 
Reszke, the elder sister of Jean and Edouard, had 
sung at Covent Garden during the season of 1881. 
Meanwhile, the strength of Mr. Mapleson's 
combination at Her Majesty's, already seriously 
affected by the death of Tietjens, received a fatal 
blow through the secession of Christine Nilsson, 
who retired from the operatic stage in 1881. This 
gifted artist, the second and last of the great 
"Swedish Nightingales, " was one of the most re- 
markable singers of her time. Her voice, a pure 
soprano of very lovely quality, possessed a singu- 
larly pathetic timbre, a curious commingling of 
sweetness and power, to which she allied a charm 
of expression that was absolutely haunting. 
Moreover, she was a born actress, and her charac- 
teristic spontaneity was of a kind that enabled 
her to stamp such characters as Mignon, Ophelia, 
Marguerite, Alice, and Elsa with the most marked 
and refreshing individuality. Christine Nilsson 
had been about eight years before the public 
when I first heard her in 1872 at Drury Lane in 
"Robert le Diable"; and her impersonation of 
Alice the favorite role of her renowned country- 
woman Jenny Lind shone resplendent amid a 
constellation of stars that included Mongini as 
Roberto, Gardoni as Rambaldo, Foli as Bertramo, 
and lima di Murska as Isabella. She had then 
just returned from a prolonged concert-tour in 
America, and her marriage at Westminster Abbey 
with M. Auguste Rouzeaud was one of the promi- 



f 3 




I 




Musical Life in London 



nent events of the season of 1872. Sixteen years 
later she bade her final farewell to British audi- 
ences at a concert given at the Eoyal Albert Hall. 

The financial collapse of the " Eoyal Italian 
Opera ' ' occurred after the season of 1884. I do not 
pretend to lay bare the secrets of the masterly mis- 
management that led to the failure of the company 
which then held the sub-lease of Covent Garden. 
The late Earl of Lathom most gracious and ami- 
able of Lord Chamberlains was not, perhaps, a 
sufficiently strong man to preside over such an 
enterprise. Neither Ernest nor Herbert Gye (co- 
directors of the company) had inherited the ad- 
ministrative talents of his father; and it is gen- 
erally supposed that Ernest, who had been for some 
years the husband of Mme. Albani, was consider- 
ably influenced in his management of the concern 
by the advice of his wife, one of the principal prime 
donne of the establishment. Apart from this, the 
only real explanation is that society had begun to 
lose interest in the opera as a social function, and 
chose to be conspicuous by its absence on all but 
the "Patti nights." For the career of the cele- 
brated diva was now at its zenith, her wondrous 
voice in its prime, and her incomparable vocaliza- 
tion had become absolutely perfect. Not even so- 
ciety could afford to remain away when the magic 
name of Adelina Patti was ' ' in the bill. ' ' 

Yet there were other great artists in the troupe 
beside those whose names have been mentioned in 
the last page or two. A host in herself was the 



Thirty Years of 



accomplished and captivating Pauline Lucca, who, 
after an absence of ten years, returned to Covent 
Garden in 1882 to gratify opera-goers once more 
with her unrivaled impersonations of SeliJca in 
"L'Af ricaine," Cherubino in "Le Nozze," Zerlina 
in i ' Fra Diavolo, ' ' Leonora in " La Favorita, ' ' and 
other characters. Despite her twenty- three years 
upon the stage, this brilliant artist was now also at 
her best ; her voice had lost none of its freshness, 
and the piquant grace of her style and the marked 
originality of her conceptions were even more 
striking than before. Her Selika 1 I can best de- 
scribe in a single word as a " dream "a supreme 
achievement to be mentioned in the same breath 
with the Rosina of Adelina Patti and the Mar- 
guerite of Christine Nilsson. Supported by Mier- 
zwinsky as Vasco da Gama, Lassalle as Nelusko, 
Bagagiolo as Pedro, and Valleria as Inez, Pauline 
Lucca's performance in " L ' Af ricaine ' ' is to be 
folded in the lavender of one's memory. She was 
also heard here then for the first time in "Car- 
men"; and her impersonation of Bizet's heroine, 
while differing in many essentials from Minnie 
Hauk's, was distinguished by all the attributes of 
voluptuous charm, subtle power, and dramatic in- 
tensity that the character demands. 

I owe to Pauline Lucca, or Baroness Wallhoffen, 
as she then was in private life, a recollection of one 

1 Pauline Lucca studied the role of SeliJca under Meyerbeer, 
and sang it on the first production of ' ' L 'Af ricaine ' ' in England 
in 1865, two years after her first appearance at Covent Garden. 

158 



Musical Life in London 



of the most enjoyable evenings I have ever spent. 
During the summer of 1884 she graciously ex- 
pressed a wish to give a dinner in my honor. In 
mid-season, however, the hard-worked critic has 
little time to spare, so it was first arranged that 
the dinner should come off on a Sunday. After- 
ward it was found necessary to postpone the date 
until the following Wednesday. Unfortunately, a 
performance of "Tristan" was announced for that 
day, and, as I felt in duty bound to attend it, I 
wrote the baroness a letter expressing my regret 
that I should be compelled either to ask for a fur- 
ther postponement, or else deny myself the pleasure 
of coming to her dinner. In reply I received the 
following characteristic note : 



[Translated from the German.] 

June 25, 1884. 

I beg you, worthy friend, not to be angry it is im- 
possible for me to choose another day. You can go on, 
anyhow, to the opera for two hours afterward. You 
know " Tristan und Isolde " is long; thus you will not 
be neglecting your duty, for which I should never for- 
give myself were I the cause. We will sit down punctu- 
ally to table. With hearty greetings from house to house, 
Yours truly, 

PAULINE WALLHOPFEN. 

It was impossible to resist so polite and persua- 
sive an invitation. I went to the dinner, and 

1 59 



Thirty Years of 



made up my mind not to miss the last act of 
11 Tristan. " But I had not exactly reckoned upon 
the nature of the attractions from which I should 
have to tear myself away. In point of fact, it was 
a remarkable gathering. Beside the prima donna 
and her husband, the party comprised Mme. Mar- 
cella Sembrich and Herr Stengel (to whom then 
she had not been long married), Signor and Mme. 
Bevignani, M. Mierzwinsky, M. Edouard de Reszke, 
and others. The meal was extremely merry, and it 
lasted a couple of hours. When we had joined the 
ladies I made signs indicative of an early depart- 
ure; but my hostess simply laughed and said: 
"Now we have got you here, we mean to keep 
you. No * Tristan ' to-night ! I have requested a fair 
young violinist to play expressly for you, and the 
Chevalier Emil Bach 1 has been good enough to 
come round for the purpose of accompanying her. ' ' 
This rather chilled me. To listen to i i fair young 
violinists" was no particular novelty, and I began 
to feel that I should prefer "Tristan." But I 
could say nothing, and waited with as much grace 
as I could command. In due time the "young vio- 
linist" was announced. The door opened, and, 
who should enter, fiddle in hand, with a solemn 
bow, but Mme. Sembrich, laughing mischievously 

1 Then quite a newcomer in London. He settled down there 
as a pianist and teacher, and composed the operas ' ' Irmengarda " 
and "The Lady of Longford, " both of which Sir Augustus 
Harris mounted at Covent Garden. Mr. Bach died quite suddenly 
in 1902. 

160 




Copyright by A. Dupont, N. Y. 

MARCELLA SEMBRICH 



Musical Life in London 



and ready to begin her solo. I then remembered 
that the vivacious little Galician lady, who had 
been delighting London for the past four seasons, 
was an accomplished violinist as well as a brilliant 
singer. She played us piece after piece, and under 
the spell of her art I fear duty was too quickly 
forgotten. My hostess was right. There was no 
" Tristan " for me that night. 

In this year (1884) I made the acquaintance of 
Antonin Dvorak, who came to London for the pur- 
pose of conducting a performance of his "Stabat 
Mater. " The work had made a great sensation 
when given in the previous year by the London 
Musical Society under Barnby. It was again per- 
formed at the Worcester Festival of 1884, under 
the composer's direction; and he came over yet a 
third time to conduct his cantata "The Spectre 's 
Bride, ' ' which he wrote expressly for the Birming- 
ham Festival of 1885. During this last visit, 
Dvorak came to my house in London with the ob- 
ject of giving me some particulars of his early 
life, which duly appeared in the i ' Sunday Times. ' ' 
His name at that period was scarcely to be found 
in a single musical dictionary, and though the omis- 
sion has since been rectified, the dates and details 
are so often incorrect that it may be worth while 
for me to give here the story of Dvorak 's romantic 
career, told as nearly as possible in his own words : 

"I was born in 1841 at Muhlhausen (in Bohemian, 
Nelahozeves), about four miles from Kralup. My 
parents were poor. My father was a butcher and 

163 



Thirty Years of 



intended me for his trade. At the age of thirteen 
I was taking lessons in singing and the violin from 
our village schoolmaster, Josef Spitz, and sang in 
the choir on Sundays. At fourteen, perceiving that 
I had musical talent, my father sent me to live with 
my uncle at a place called Zlonic (near Schau), 
where I was taken in hand by the organist, Anton 
Liehmann, and in 1856 I began to study the piano. 

"In Bohemia every child must learn music and, 
if possible, sing in church. I think this law explains 
the development of so much natural talent for 
music in my country. It is not only the gipsies 
and their music that are the responsible factors. 
There are the beautiful national * chorales,' which 
the people so dearly love. They sing them as they 
work in the fields, and the spirit of music enters 
their souls. Of course they love to dance are 
they not Slavs? Why, after church they revel in 
music and dancing, sometimes until early morning ! 
In fact, it is the favorite amusement of the race. 
Admission to these 'dance-meetings is always free, 
but a collection is made afterward for the musi- 
cians. I used to be among the fiddlers and received 
my share, which I always gave to my father. 

i l When my father came to live at Zlonic in 1856- 
1857, he taught me his trade, and I learned how to 
buy sheep and kill them. But I liked my musical 
studies better, especially now that I could begin 
to read a little and dip into the scores of such 
masses as Haydn's in D minor, Mozart's in C ma- 
jor, and Cherubini's in D minor. The feeling de- 

164 



Musical Life in London 



veloped; I wanted to try to write something; but 
the different keys for the clarinets, the bass trum- 
pet, the horns, and the trombone worried me 
greatly. Still, I was too proud to ask for these to 
be explained. At last I managed to write a polka, 
and showed it to my teacher. He found only one 
mistake in the trumpet part, which should have 
been in F major. I carried my piece home in tri- 
umph, and it was tried by the band. But, alas ! the 
whole thing to my ears sounded totally wrong. 

' l Then I began to work at counterpoint and the 
organ, teaching myself most of the time. I got 
hold of a big book on counterpoint, full of ' figured 
bass, ' the meaning of which was not explained ; but 
as soon as I understood I used to read whole masses 
from the * figured bass.' At last some of my fa- 
ther's friends, believing that I possessed real talent, 
persuaded him to send me to Prague. I stayed 
with some relations, and was allowed eight gulden 
(about $3.60) per month during part of the two 
years (1857 to 1859) that I spent in the capital. 
I entered a college which still exists for the instruc- 
tion of organists and musical directors, and be- 
came a pupil of Josef Pitsch. On his death I 
studied under his successor, a very clever musician 
named Krejci, who was choirmaster at a large 
church and took me there to sing with his best 
pupils. 

"My studies now ended. Of instrumentation, 
it is true, I understood very little. As for Mozart 
and Beethoven, I only just knew they had existed. 

165 



Thirty Years of 



But I had to earn a living somehow. And how 
was it to be done ? Well, I thought, I can play the 
violin decently, I must try to get a place in a band. 
So I went to a Kapellmeister, who had a band of 
eighteen or twenty, and asked him whether he 
would take me. He engaged me to play the viola 
at twenty- two gulden ($9.90) a month, and I was 
delighted. I also joined a sextet that used to per- 
form regularly at a lunatic asylum, and there I was 
engaged to play the organ for the Sunday services. 
We used to play at various cafes, giving potpourris 
and overtures of every description; and I remem- 
ber that the overture to ' ' Maritana' ' was frequently 
in our programme. This was in 1860. 

"One Sunday I went to hear *Der Freischiitz' 
at the German Theatre. The Bohemian National 
Theatre was not yet in existence. Bohemian artists 
then had to sing in German, but, as a concession, 
were allowed to sing an opera in their own lan- 
guage every Sunday afternoon. The 'Freischiitz' 
made an enormous impression on me; but I could 
not afford the necessary ten kreutzers (40 cents) 
very often. I used to contrive, however, to hear 
good concerts occasionally by slipping into the 
orchestra and hiding behind the drums. In this 
way I saw Spohr in 1859, when he conducted a 
grand concert to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary 
of the Prague Conservatoire ; and then it was that 
I heard Beethoven's 'choral' symphony for the 
first time. 

"In 1861 I wrote my first two serious composi- 

166 



Musical Life in London 



tions, the string quintet in G and the quartet in A 
minor. I persuaded some friends to play the 
quintet, and they were rather pleased with it. It 
reminded them of Haydn, Mozart, and early Bee- 
thoven. Thereupon I showed it to my teacher, 
Krejci, and was very proud when he expressed 
himself contented. Next year the new National 
Theatre was built, and I was engaged to play in 
the orchestra. The first operas given were Bellini 's 
'Capuletti ed i Montecchi' and 'Norma,' Rossini's 
'Otello,' and Cherubim 's ' Water-Carrier. ' In 
1863 I went to Hamburg to play in the band at the 
exhibition. At home in Prague we all lived in the 
same house, and my companions used to laugh at 
me for working so hard at composing one espe- 
cially who is now a Kapellmeister and conducts my 
operas. But I persevered, and had the good for- 
tune to make the acquaintance of a valuable musical 
friend in Karl Bendl, who used to lend me his 
scores. Among other works, I studied the quartets 
of Onslow and Beethoven's septet, and so gradu- 
ally developed fresh ideas. 

i ' Most of my compositions of that epoch are long 
since torn up or burned; and I wrote quantities 
of stuff after I had thrown up my theatre engage- 
ment and taken to teaching in order to have more 
time to compose. I had now (1871) a great am- 
bition to write an opera. I found a libretto en- 
titled 'Konig und Kohler' (King and Collier) and 
set to work upon it. In due time I submitted the 
score to the manager of the National Theatre, who 

167 



Thirty Years of 



ordered it to be tried at rehearsal. I confess it 
was very Wagnerian. I had heard 'Die Meister- 
singer,' and the new influence was very strong 
upon me. My music was horribly difficult. At the 
piano rehearsals the singers could make little of it ; 
with the chorus it was still worse infinitely more 
difficult, they said, than Wagner. Ultimately every- 
body laughed at me, and my opera was refused. 1 
Four years later I completely rewrote the score, 
more in the national style, and made it easy to sing 
and play. It was then produced with great suc- 
cess, and helped my reputation materially. 

"In 1874 I was appointed organist of St. Adal- 
bert's Church, at the enormous salary of one hun- 
dred and sixty gulden ($72) per annum, for which 
I had to get up at half -past five o 'clock every morn- 
ing. The payment worked out at about two 
kreutzers (eight cents) per mass. Meanwhile, too, 
I had indulged in the luxury of taking to myself 
a wife, a very musical Prague lady, who for many 
years sang contralto in one of the churches. 

"At last, in 1875, I was granted the * artist' sti- 
pend of four hundred gulden (for one year only) 
from the Kultusministerium at Vienna. To ob- 
tain this I had sent in as i exercises' my opera and 
my symphony in F, Op. 25. The second year I 
sent in my 'Stabat Mater' and my grand opera 

1 Dvorak was not ashamed to acknowledge that he was at this 
time very much influenced in his harmony and instrumentation by 
Wagner. He saw him conduct, and used to follow the master 
as he walked the streets of Prague. He admired him immensely. 

168 



Musical Life in London 



' Wanda/ which was played a few months later 
with immense success. Yet from these works no 
stipend resulted [ !] . I tried again by adding my 
pianoforte concerto, the piano variations in A flat, 
and the string quartet in D minor, and this time 
was favored with an allowance of five hundred 
gulden. Next year, through the influence of Jo- 
hannes Brahms, Edward Hanslick, and Herbeck, 
the sum was raised to six hundred gulden. 

"I now wrote to Brahms and asked him if he 
would kindly use his influence with some publishers 
to bring out my compositions. He replied that he 
would be happy to do so, and a little later on I 
received a satisfactory communication from Sim- 
rock, of Berlin, who afterward told me I was the 
first person on whose behalf Brahms had yet in- 
terested himself. Simrock paid me nothing for my 
1 Marischen ' duets, but he asked me to compose the 
'Slavische Tanze,' and gave me three hundred 
marks ($75) for them. That was the first money 
I ever received for a composition. ' ' 

And here Dvorak's narrative ceased. I need add 
naught to it concerning the years that came after, 
for their history is as an "open book" both to the 
Old and to the New World, where the gifted Bohe- 
mian has been a leading light and a familiar figure. 
One of the most original and remarkable creative 
musicians of our era, he is also one of those whom 
success has not spoiled. But if the pen of this great 
and modest genius be less active, less prolific, than 
of yore, it is only necessary to glance at the story 

169 



Thirty Years of 



of those strenuous early days to understand why 
Antonin Dvorak is a little tired, and not unwilling 
to continue the otium cum dignitate, or at least to 
work lightly and at his ease, during the remaining 
years of his existence. 

Another famous contemporary composer whom 
I am proud to count among my best friends is 
Camille Saint-Saens. I was introduced to him by 
Signer Garcia, whom he used to visit at Bentinck 
Street whenever he came to London. At that period 
he was regarded by English amateurs (ignorant as 
yet of the very existence of Cesar Franck and his 
disciples) as the leader of the advanced French 
school. Orthodox musicians considered him ec- 
centric ; more modern thinkers admired his mixture 
of Teutonic severity with the ultra-saccharine 
melodiousness of Gounod. Both parties agreed to 
recognize in the then organist of the Paris Made- 
leine (a post held by Saint-Saens from 1858 until 
1877) a musician of prodigious talent, endowed 
with a versatility that enabled him to shine in every 
branch of his art, and possessed of a mastery of 
technique that could adapt itself to whatsoever 
style he might for the moment choose to exploit. 
He was as brilliant a pianist as he was an organist, 
his habit of playing the one instrument never 
spoiled his exquisite touch for the other, and his 
gift of improvisation was marvelous. 

Saint-Saens made his debut in London, in 1871, 
at the Musical Union ; but I did not hear him until 
1879, when he played his own pianoforte concerto 

170 



Musical Life in London 



in G minor at the Philharmonic. He was then 
anxiously canvassing the chances of mounting his 
new opera, " Samson et Dalila," which had been 
produced at Weimar in 1877, under the auspices of 
his friend Franz Liszt, but had not yet been 
granted a hearing in the composer's own country. 1 
He quickly learned, however, that our puritanical 
laws precluded all likelihood of his biblical opera 
finding its way to the English stage. During the 
next few years we became very close friends. I 
always called upon him when I went to Paris, and 
he rarely missed coming to see me when he was in 
London. 

One of these visits happened at a very sad mo- 
ment. I was out when M. Saint- Saens called at 
Bentinck Street, and he found the members of my 
family in a state of terrible agitation. One of my 
younger brothers had been playing with a pistol 
and had accidentally shot himself through the 
head. He had expired only a few minutes before. 
The youngest boy, Manuel, 2 who had witnessed the 

1 "Samson et Dalila" was not actually heard in France until 
1890, when it was brought out at Kouen with the late Elena Sanz 
as Dalila. This clever artist also took part in the first concert 
representation of the work in England during the Promenade 
Concert season at Covent Garden in 1893. ' ' Samson ' ' has never 
yet been performed upon the stage in England. 

2 Some ten years later Manuel went to reside in New York, 
where our brothers Alfred and Charles had already earned promi- 
nent positions the first as an actor, the second as a dramatist. 
Deciding to adopt a musical career, Manuel seriously took up the 
study of composition, and in due time published several songs 
and pianoforte pieces which met with favor. His first substantial 






Thirty Years of 



mishap, endeavored to explain what had occurred 
to M. Saint-Saens. He caught the words "mon 
frere" and "mort," and immediately jumped to 
the conclusion that it was I who was dead. He 
burst into tears, and was so much affected that 
some time elapsed before he could be made to un- 
derstand that I was not the victim. Later in the 
day we met, and the warm-hearted Frenchman 
gave me an embrace that showed plainly his glad- 
ness at once more seeing me in the flesh. 

Finding that England was a much likelier ground 
for oratorio than opera, he arranged through 
Messrs. Novello for the performance of his at- 
tractive setting of Psalm xix, "The Heavens de- 
clare," which was duly performed (and very badly 
into the bargain) by the Sacred Harmonic Society 
at St. James's Hall in 1885. Two years later a 
much better rendering of the psalm was given at 
the Norwich Festival under Mr. Randegger. Mean- 
while Saint-Saens had expressed to me his desire 
to write an oratorio upon the subject of Moses, and 
asked me whether I would furnish him with the 
necessary biblical text. I readily consented, and, 
after arranging the plan with him, set to work upon 
my task. In a few weeks I sent the text to Paris. 
He was not entirely satisfied, and returned it for 
alterations. These evidently answered the purpose, 

success, however, was the musical piece ' ' Mr. Pickwick, ' ' which 
he wrote in collaboration with Charles and conducted during its 
run at the Herald Square Theatre, New York, in the winter of 
1903. 



Musical Life in London 



for, toward the end of 1886, he wrote me : "I find 
that now it is all right. The monotony which made 
me uneasy exists no longer. " After this I heard 
nothing until he came to London in the following 
June. He then gave some recitals, and accom- 
plished his memorable feat of performing his own 
four pianoforte concertos at one sitting, 1 which, 
as it took place on the anniversary of Waterloo, 
was generally supposed to be intended as a revenge 
for the defeat of the French in that immortal battle. 
During the holidays I called upon the wayward 
master when passing through Paris, but he was 
out of town. Still without news of i ' Moses, " I 
wrote him a long account of the success of his psalm 
at Norwich, and that I was hoping to arrange for 
the production of the new oratorio there. I re- 
ceived in reply the following letter: 

[Translated from the French.] 

PARIS, October 18, 1887. 
MY DEAR FRIEND: 

Nothing could be more agreeable than the news you 
give me of my Psalm. I cannot console myself for not 
having gone to hear it ; I was detained in Paris by some , 
business at the opera. When you were in Paris I was 
compelled to leave hurriedly for Boulogne. I sent you 
a telegram from Creil asking you tp come and dine with 
me the following day; but, whether through a mistake 
in the address, or some other cause, the telegram never 
reached you. 

*St. James's Hall, June 18, 1887; Mr. W. Ganz, conductor. 



Musical Life in London 



Should the oratorio be arranged for Norwich, I shall 
be very glad. I shall, as you say, have all the necessary 
time for devoting myself entirely to it, which seems to 
me indispensable for a work of this magnitude. You 
will undertake to negotiate with a publisher; I should 
very much like Novello. . . . "Moi'se" will probably be 
my last work. It must worthily crown my career ! 

Your faithful and affectionate, 

C. SAINT-SAENS. 

But the Fates were not kind to "Moise." The 
Norwich authorities were unwilling to pledge them- 
selves so long beforehand to accept a work of un- 
known proportions. I then opened negotiations 
with the Leeds committee ; but difficulties were also 
raised in that direction, and in the midst of the 
delay it came to the ears of Saint-Saens that Anton 
Rubinstein was just completing a biblical opera in 
eight tableaux, entitled "Moses," which would 
shortly be produced at St. Petersburg or Moscow. 1 
This was enough for the French composer. He 
at once relinquished all idea of writing an oratorio 
upon the subject. I asked him to return my text, 
and after a few weeks it came back accompanied 
by the following brief epistle : 

Voici "Moi'se," et avec lui mes meilleurs amities. 
, C. SAINT-SAENS. 

1 As a matter of fact, Rubinstein had been engaged for nearly 
twenty years upon this big work, which, however, was not produced 
until 1894. It was then mounted at Riga with a company of no 
fewer than four hundred performers, and upon a scale of the 
utmost scenic grandeur. 



176 



CHAPTER IX 

Franz Liszt His last visit to London A marvelous survival of 
a glorious past Rubinstein's farewell to England: his "his- 
torical recitals "An operatic debacle Lago to the rescue 
Growth of the Wagner Cult Hans Richter and Arthur Sullivan 
England's greatest musician: his ideas, habits, and attri- 
butes "The Golden Legend" at Leeds Festival Georg 
HenscheL 

r I THERE was, for musical dwellers in London, 
JL something almost providential in the visit 
paid by Franz Liszt during the spring of 1886., He 
had not stood upon British soil for forty-five years. 
There seemed to be but the remotest likelihood that, 
at the age of seventy-five, he would ever trouble 
himself again to travel over land and sea to a coun- 
try whose attitude toward him and his works had 
invariably been chilly and unsympathetic. But the 
persuasions of his pupil and protagonist, Walter 
Bache, who worked so long and lovingly to obtain 
recognition and appreciation for his master's 
works, at last proved effectual. On the evening 
of April 3 he arrived. On the morning of the 20th 
he departed. Three months later on the night of 
July 31 he died at Bayreuth of pneumonia, re- 
sulting from a bronchial cold, which he aggravated 
by attending one of the first performances of 

i 77 



Thirty Years of 



"Tristan und Isolde,' 7 given at his old friend 
Richard Wagner's Biihnenfestspielhaus. 

I was one of a party of guests invited to meet 
the Abbe Liszt on the night of Saturday, April 3, 
at Westwood House, Sydenham, where he was to 
be the guest of Mr. Henry Littleton (then head of 
the firm of Novello & Co.) during his stay in Eng- 
land. I went early, and was just in time to see him 
welcomed by his host after a fatiguing journey 
from Paris. He had been met at Dover by Mr. 
Alfred Littleton, the eldest son and present head 
of the house, who gave me an interesting account of 
the trip. There could be no doubt that Liszt was 
extremely dubious concerning our real feelings 
toward him. In fact, the position was very much 
akin to that in which Wagner had stood nine years 
before, only with this important difference: that 
Wagner came 1 1 prof essionally, ' ' for the purpose 
of extracting British gold from British pockets, 
whereas Liszt was here, purely in a private capa- 
city, to attend some perf ormances of his works. He 
was simply nervous, therefore, lest, being no longer 
a public artist, he should be shining in the reflected 
light of his past glories as a virtuoso in an at- 
mosphere that was uncongenial to him as a cre- 
ative musician. 

An hour after his arrival he entered the vast oak- 
paneled apartment which had just been added as 
a music-room to Westwood House. It was crowded 
with all the musical notabilities then in London, 
every one of them anxious to gaze upon the visage 

178 



Musical Life in London 



of the man who was then perhaps the most inter- 
esting musical figure in the world. Dressed in his 
semi-priestly garb, the venerable abbe walked 
slowly down the steps leading to the floor of the 
room, and smiled graciously upon the groups that 
saluted him as he passed. He looked somewhat 
tired, and it was remarked by those who knew him 
that he had aged considerably during the last few 
years. But his still bright eye, his still brilliant 
powers of conversation, his still industrious habits, 
all precluded the smallest suspicion that the end 
was so near. His attention that evening was 
largely monopolized by old friends; still, many 
new ones were brought to his notice, and I had the 
pleasure of being introduced with a kind word or 
two by the loyal and indefatigable Walter Bache, 
who, with others, took part in a programme of his 
compositions. 

Liszt himself did not then play, though, when 
spending subsequent evenings at home in the Lit- 
tleton family circle, he almost always went to the 
piano of his own accord and enchanted them with 
some piece or improvisation of his own. Once he 
surprised them by extemporizing marvelously upon 
themes from his oratorio "St. Elizabeth, " per- 
formances of which he attended both at St. James 9 s 
Hall and the Crystal Palace. The welcome he re- 
ceived everywhere exceeded in warmth and spon- 
taneity the expectations of his most fanatical 
admirers. Still more did the scenes enacted dur- 
ing his stay astonish this most petted and feted 

i 79 



Thirty Years of 



of septuagenarians, with whom anywhere outside 
"cold, unmusical England' 'such outbursts of 
enthusiasm had been the concomitants of a life- 
time. 

I first heard him play on April 6, when he went 
to the Royal Academy to hand over to the com- 
mittee of management the sum of 1100, raised 
through the efforts of Walter Bache for the founda- 
tion of a "Liszt scholarship" at that institution. 
The shout of joy uttered by the students when he 
sat down at the piano was something to remember. 
It was followed by an intense silence. Then the 
aged but still nimble fingers ran lightly over the 
keys, and I was listening for the first time in my 
life to Franz Liszt. To attempt to describe his 
playing, after the many well-known Weimar pupils 
and distinguished writers who have tried to ac- 
complish that task, would be mere presumption on 
my part. Even at seventy-five, Liszt was a pianist 
whose powers lay beyond the pale to which sober 
language or calm criticism could reach or be ap- 
plied. Enough that his greatest charm seemed to 
me to lie in a perfectly divine touch, and in a tone 
more remarkable for its exquisitely musical qual- 
ity than for its volume or dynamic force, aided 
by a technique still incomparably brilliant and 
superb. 

Two days later Liszt proceeded to Windsor 
Castle, where he was received with the utmost cor- 
diality by Queen Victoria. He played several pieces 
to Her Majesty, who told him that she cherished a 

180 







From a photograph by Nadar, Paris 

FRANZ LISZT 



Musical Life in London 



vivid recollection of his playing when he last visited 
London in 1841. On his return to town in the 
evening, he attended a reception given in his honor 
at the Grosvenor Gallery by Walter Bache. This 
was in some respects the most striking function 
of the series. The gathering was in every sense 
a representative one, and the famous abbe, as he 
went round chatting from group to group, seemed 
positively radiant with happiness. To repeat his 
own words, addressed to myself: "You have so 
overwhelmed me with kindness in this country that 
I shall be quite sorry when the time comes for 
me to leave you." The programme comprised his 
"Angelus" for strings, a chorus for female voices, 
a pianoforte piece, and some songs; and finally, 
amid a scene of great excitement, he himself 
played the finale of Schubert's "Divertissement 
a la Hongroise ' ' and his own Hungarian rhapsody 
in A minor. This glorious treat furnished the 
crowning feature of a memorable evening doubly 
memorable because it was the last time but one 
that Franz Liszt touched his instrument in the 
presence of a public or quasi-public assemblage. 

It was a very strange coincidence that the season 
which witnessed Liszt's final adieu to England 
should have likewise been the occasion of Anton 
Rubinstein's last visit. The one left in April; the 
other came in May. Within a period of six weeks 
we heard and saw, for the last time, the two great- 
est pianists that the world had then known. The 
leonine Russian gave at St. James's Hall that won- 

183 



Thirty Years of 



derful series of "Historical Recitals " which has 
since become historical in every sense that mar- 
velously comprehensive cycle wherein he illustrated 
the progress and development of pianoforte music 
from its earliest epoch down to the penultimate 
decade of the nineteenth century. It was, alike 
mentally and physically, an extraordinary tour de 
force. No one save Rubinstein would have at- 
tempted the Herculean feat involved in the execu- 
tion of such programmes. What must the task 
have been for the executant, if the bare labor of 
listening was an exhausting process! But Rubin- 
stein was a giant, and the considerations that ap- 
plied to ordinary pianists did not arise in his case. 
These recitals yielded the largest sum ever taken 
at St. James's Hall for a series of seven concerts, 
the gross receipts amounting to 6000 ($30,000). 
An extra recital was given, and out of the proceeds 
Rubinstein divided 300 ($1500) among various 
charitable institutions. 

The fortunes of Italian opera were now at their 
lowest ebb. The season of 1885 had been al- 
most wholly barren, and that of 1886 was little 
better. Incapacity and indifference reached their 
climax with the disgraceful and humiliating scene 
that occurred at Her Majesty's Theatre on the 
night of March 6, 1886. Some unknown person, 
evidently without experience as a manager, had 
,there started a season of Italian opera with a com- 
pany of incompetent artists. On the fourth night 
it completely collapsed under circumstances un- 

184 



Musical Life in London 



precedented in the annals of opera in a great 
city. I quote my own description 1 of what oc- 
curred. 

The second act of "Faust" had concluded when the 
orchestra refused to proceed further unless their salaries 
were instantly paid. Their claims were partly satisfied, 
and, after an interval of inordinate length, in the course 
of which the audience displayed the noisiest impatience, 
the opera proceeded for another act, with the accom- 
paniment of about half the band. But the crisis had 
only been deferred. After the curtain had fallen again 
there was another long "wait," and the disturbances 
recommenced. At length, in response to deafening calls, 
the stage-manager came forward and announced that it 
was impossible to proceed. The stage-carpenters had 
refused to set the next scene, and the opera could not, 
therefore, go on. A howl of derision and anger greeted 
this statement; but the audience, having made up its 
mind to the worst, was preparing, amid a fearful din, 
to depart, when the curtain rose once more and a whole 
army of stage assistants came down to the footlights with 
outstretched arms and aprons, as though to implore the 
charity of the house. The gestures were understood, and, 
with one accord, the remaining occupants of the gallery 
and upper tiers began flinging a shower of coppers and 
small silver coins down on to the stage, uttering the 
while all sorts of satirical and uncomplimentary epithets. 
However, the occupation was too expensive to last long, 
and in a minute or two this disgraceful episode came 
to a termination, ending also a night of horrors that will 
never be forgotten by those who witnessed it. 

1<( Musical Notes," by Hermann Klein, London, 1886. 

185 



Thirty Years of 



After this Her Majesty's remained closed for over 
a year. Mapleson was too much in debt to dare 
start upon any fresh speculation; and, indeed, 
so sore was his plight that his old friend Mme. 
Patti felt constrained to come forward later in 
the year and appear in a performance of "II Bar- 
biere" at Drury Lane for the benefit of the un- 
lucky impresario. Meanwhile Covent Garden was 
tenantless, and it seemed in the highest degree 
probable that we should experience the novelty of 
a London season completely without Italian opera. 
The man who prevented that calamity (if calam- 
ity it may be termed) was Signor Lago, formerly 
regisseur at Covent Garden under the management 
of the Gyes, father and son. With the support 
of the tenor Gayarre and some financial backing, 
the new impresario contrived to form a* capital 
troupe and to give a short but respectable sea- 
son of opera. Although he brought out no nov- 
elties, he introduced several new artists worth 
hearing among them Ella Russell, Giulia Valda, 
and Francesco D 'Andrade, all of whom made their 
mark. The company also included artists like Al- 
bani, Scalchi, Cepeda, Gayarre, Pandolfini, and 
Maurel, with Bevignani as the conductor. Of 
course, a solitary undertaking such as this could 
not suffice to retrieve the fortunes of Italian opera. 
It served, however, to prove that the genus, if 
moribund in Great Britain, was not yet utterly 
extinct, and its repetition in the following year 
helped still further to reawaken public interest 

1 86 



Musical Life in London 



and engender the confidence which ultimately 
made possible the real revival. In his way, there- 
fore, Signer Lago did palpable service to the 
cause of opera in London; but he had neither the 
Napoleonic spirit nor the administrative ability 
and courage for carrying his mission through to 
the true goal. 

It is worth pausing for a moment to note how 
quickly the popularity of Wagner was rising at this 
period. Only the distant onlooker could perceive 
how large a place the master was beginning to fill 
in the hearts of English music-lovers. Failing the 
opportunity for hearing his complete works upon 
the stage, they had perforce to be content to hear 
them, either whole or in part, upon the concert 
platform. The demand for this kind of thing be- 
came remarkable, and it was satisfied by the most 
conservative as well as the most advanced musical 
institutions. Imagine two concert performances 
of "Parsifal" (with very few cuts, moreover) be- 
ing given in London only a couple of years after 
the first production of that glorious music-drama 
at Bayreuth! Yet this was actually done in the 
autumn of 1884 by the Royal Choral Society, under 
Joseph Barnby, with Therese Mai ten (the orig- 
inal Kundry), Gudehus, and Scaria in the principal 
parts. And really the exacting work was very 
creditably interpreted. By the way, Malten and 
Gudehus were again in London in 1886, when they 
sang at the Richter Concerts in long excerpts from 
"Tristan" and "Siegfried," supported by Pauline 

189 



Thirty Years of 



Cramer and Georg Henschel. I never cared par- 
ticularly for the tenor his voice was always hard 
and metallic; but Malten's noble organ was never 
in grander condition, and she sang with a degree 
of dramatic intensity and emotional warmth that 
was absolutely thrilling. 

The success of Hans Bichter in England contin- 
ued to be extraordinary. Indeed, after a time it 
began to create something of a feeling of jealousy 
among those purely British musicians who then 
held, and, perhaps, not unjustly, that their country 
had too long been the happy hunting-ground of 
"distinguished foreigners'' generally, and of for- 
eign conductors in particular. The feeling, how- 
ever, did not find expression openly until after the 
appointment of Eichter to succeed the late Sir 
Michael Costa as conductor of the Birmingham 
Festival. This proceeding evoked a display of 
actual resentment. For my own part, I failed to 
see that it was called for in the case of a man of 
such commanding genius; so I plainly stated that 
I approved the appointment and could not sym- 
pathize with those who objected to it. My remarks 
brought me a shoal of deprecatory letters among 
them the following one from Sir Arthur Sullivan : 

1 QUEEN'S MANSIONS, VICTORIA STREET, S. W., 

19th May, 1884. 
DEAR MR. KLEIN : 

In looking over the "Sunday Times" I am greatly 
grieved and disappointed to read your comments on 
Herr Bichter 's appointment to the conductorship of the 
Birmingham Musical Festival. 

I9O 



Musical Life in London 



I think all this musical education for the English is 
vain and idle, as they are not allowed the opportunity 
of earning their living in their own country. Foreigners 
are thrust in everywhere, and the press supports this 
injustice. If we had no men who could do the work I 
should say nothing but we have. 

Yours very truly, 

ARTHUR SULLIVAN. 

Now let me say at once that Sir Arthur Sullivan 
was incapable of entertaining sentiments of mean 
and petty jealousy. As conductor of the Leeds 
Festival, a post which brought all the honor and 
labor that he sought in this direction, lie did not 
desire Birmingham for himself. Neither did he 
refuse to admit the application to his own art of 
the essentially British principle of "free trade." 
His motto was simply, ' t Charity begins at home ' ' ; 
and, if he felt strongly on the subject, it was be- 
cause he had seen in the course of his career too 
much of that "thrusting in of foreigners 7 ' which 
was the curse of English musical life during the 
greater part of the nineteenth century. As prin- 
cipal of the National Training School for Music, 1 
he had had practical experience of the difficulty 
in finding lucrative employment for young native 
executants. Hence his conviction that if money 
were spent upon their education, it was only fair 

1 Opened in 1876 with eighty-two free scholarships and car- 
ried on until 1882, when it was absorbed by the larger institution 
now flourishing under the title of the Eoyal College of Music. 
Eugen d 'Albert was among the pupils trained at the earlier 
school. 

191 



Thirty Years of 



that they should enjoy preference over musicians 
of foreign birth and training. Happily, he lived 
long enough to see this patriotic aspiration in a 
large measure fulfilled. 

I did not reply, either by writing or in print, to 
Sir Arthur Sullivan ? s letter, but went to see him on 
the following Sunday, when we threshed the whole 
matter out to our mutual satisfaction. That was 
the first of the many Sunday-afternoon chats that 
I enjoyed in the library of his comfortable apart- 
ment in Victoria Street. He was an inveterate 
cigarette-smoker, and from the moment I entered 
until the time I left, a cigarette was scarcely ever 
out of his mouth. He was a bright, interesting 
talker, full of genuine Irish mother-wit, yet withal 
earnest, emphatic, and impressive when he wished. 
He was devotedly attached to a parrot that was 
also a good talker, and would amuse him by in- 
sisting on spelling Polly with only one "1." At 
the period to which I am referring he was already 
a sufferer from the painful malady which even- 
tually carried him off; but his hair had not yet 
turned gray, he still wore the familiar bushy whis- 
kers shown in his early portraits, and he was 
robust enough to indulge frequently in his favorite 
pastime, lawn-tennis. 

Sullivan was not naturally what one would term 
a born worker. He turned to labor not so much 
for love of it as through sheer necessity. The most 
successful and popular English musician of his 
day, a great favorite with royalty, the enfant gate 

192 



O (70 

15 




a 1 22 

w cc 





Musical Life in London 



of society, the demands upon his time were so ex- 
cessive that it was a marvel how he managed to 
get through his long list of public and private en- 
gagements. At this period, much, if not the 
greater part, of his composing was done between 
midnight and four or five o'clock in the morning. 

"I find it impossible," he would tell me, "to 
settle down to a score during the daytime. I wait 
till every one is in bed ; then I go to my desk, and 
perhaps finish the instrumentation of a whole num- 
ber before I finally lay down my pen. The streets 
are so quiet, the atmosphere is so peaceful, and I 
have no fear that I am going to be disturbed every 
few minutes. ' 7 The rate at which he could ' ' score ' ' 
was prodigious; and, notably in the case of his 
comic operas, he would leave certain mechanical 
details till nearly the last moment, knowing that 
by dint of an extra spurt he could always finish in 
time. 

On the other hand, there were scores over which 
he lingered tenderly and long, as over a true "labor 
of love. ' ' One of these was l ' The Golden Legend. ' ' 
He showed it to me during one of our Sunday 
chats, and pointed with pride to what he hoped 
would be some novel effects in the prologue the 
wailing "diminished" chords for the violins, the 
exulting clang of the bells, the blare of the brass 
instruments, the poignant cry, "Oh, we cannot!" 
uttered by the disappointed demons, and, lastly, 
the contrast when the organ comes in and the monks 
chant their grand hymn in broad unison. Novel, 



Thirty Years of 



indeed, did these effects prove in the rendering- 
strokes of pure originality on the part of a com- 
poser who had heretofore ventured slightly, if at 
all, beyond the limits of treatment laid down in 
the scores of his beloved masters, Schubert and 
Mendelssohn. 1 My outspoken admiration won for 
me the promise of a copy of the full score of ' ' The 
Golden Legend" as soon as it should be published; 
and in due time that copy arrived, with the com- 
poser's autograph upon the title-page. 

This beautiful work was written for and brought 
out at the Leeds Festival of 1886. There can be no 
doubt that it immensely enhanced the reputation 
of the composer, whose genius as a writer of comic 
operas had been brilliantly exemplified eighteen 
months before by the production of ' l The Mikado. ' ' 
The laurels yielded by the Savoy operas were of 
necessity shared by Sir Arthur with his talented 
collaborator, Mr. W. S. Gilbert. In regard to the 
Leeds cantata, the composer certainly owed much to 
Longfellow's lovely poem and to Mr. Joseph Ben- 
nett's adroit adaptation thereof; but, this apart, 
there was no one to divide with him the glory of 
a supreme triumph, of an artistic achievement that 
stood "head and shoulders" above all his previous 

1 Seven years later I saw Sir Arthur Sullivan alone in a pit 
tier box, at Covent Garden, listening to a performance of "Die 
Meistersinger. ' ' After the second act I went to speak to him, 
and noticed that he had before him a full score of Wagner 's work. 
Presently he pointed to it and remarked: "You see I am taking 
a lesson. Well, why not? This is not only Wagner's master- 
piece, but the greatest comic opera that was ever written." 

196 



Musical Life in London 



efforts. The overwhelming success at Leeds was 
the more remarkable in that it came at the close 
of the greatest festival ever held there following 
new works of such calibre as Dvorak's oratorio 
"St. Ludmila," A. C. Mackenzie's cantata "The 
Story of Sayid," and Villiers Stanford's fine 
choral ballad "The Revenge," not to speak of a 
phenomenal performance by the Yorkshire cho- 
rus of Bach's great Mass in B minor, never before 
attempted at a provincial festival. The most tre- 
mendous ovation of all, though, was that which 
greeted the composer of "The Golden Legend" 
when he laid down his baton at the close of the 
noble choral epilogue. Such ringing British 
cheers had not been heard in that magnificent hall 
since Queen Victoria opened it in 'the "fifties." 

It was on such occasions as this that Sullivan's 
native modesty stood out most conspicuously. 
Only with difficulty could he be persuaded to re- 
turn twice to the platform ; he complained that the 
girls of the choir had pelted him with too many 
nosegays the first time. When he retired to the 
artists ' room I followed him, and heard his words 
of gratitude to the singers Albani, Patey, Lloyd, 
and Frederic King who had so loyally carried 
out his ideas. To Mme. Patey he was even 
apologetic. He said to the gifted contralto: "I 
am sorry I did not write you something that was 
worthier of you ;* but I was in pain the whole time, 

Deferring to the air "Virgin who lovest," in the last scene 
but one of the cantata. 

197 



Thirty Years of 



and I am bound to say the music exactly illustrates 
the torments that I suffered. 7 ' He literally told 
the truth. The number in question is the only one 
in the cantata that does not faithfully reflect the 
spirit of the text. 

If Sir Arthur Sullivan had a weakness, it was 
his notable penchant for the turf. He dearly loved 
to go to the races, and was a regular attendant at 
the meetings held at Newmarket, Sandown, and 
elsewhere. He once owned two or three race- 
horsesa luxury to which his fairly wealthy po- 
sition quite entitled him. But I believe I am cor- 
rect in saying that he never succeeded in winning 
a stake. Nor did I find him particularly success- 
ful as a "tipster," though few men had so many 
intimate friends among the members of the Eng- 
lish Jockey Club. The last time I ever saw him 
was at one of the suburban race-meetings, three 
months before he died. As we walked away to- 
gether he remarked sententiously, "I have n't 
backed a single winner. My luck is out. But 
never mind; I have seen the winner of next year's 
Derby, and when the time comes I mean to back 
him." That, alas! he never lived to do. Which, 
perhaps, explains why Mr. William C. Whitney 
won the "blue riband" of the English turf with 
Volodyovski, the horse to which Sir Arthur re- 
ferred. 

His name may occur again in these pages, but 
I shall have no better opportunity for paying a 

198 



Musical Life in London 



tribute to the memory of the musician whose loss 
the whole world still deplores. Sullivan was a man 
of singularly sweet and amiable disposition. There 
was much more impulsive warmth and emotional 
depth to his Irish nature than one would have 
judged from his manner, which impressed most 
people as being cold and reserved. He had un- 
common powers of self-repression, and he used 
them more than he really needed. As a conduc- 
tor, this was no doubt to his disadvantage; yet 
if magnetism were lacking, neither sympathy nor 
control was, and his slightest sign was instantly 
obeyed. Only those who saw him work at re- 
hearsal could tell how completely he was master 
of the situation. At the performance he pur- 
posely avoided a demonstrative style; hence was 
his beat often described as " lethargic" by those 
who studied his manner instead of the effects that 
he produced. 

And, after all, modesty was the true secret of 
his hatred of display. Success never engendered 
an overwhelming confidence in self, and to the very 
last it pleased him to be assured that he had done 
something worthy of his name and talent. To 
prove this I cannot do better than reproduce a let- 
ter which he wrote me only a year before his death 
-premising that the opera mentioned was "The 
Eose of Persia, ' ' and that he had a short time pre- 
viously resigned his position as conductor of the 
Leeds Festival: 

2OI 



Thirty Years of 



1 QUEEN'S MANSIONS, VICTORIA STREET, S. W., 

19 November, 1899. 
DEAR KLEIN: 

si sic omnes! I am still young enough to be pleased 
at reading (in real live print, mind you!) a few kind 
words written in a kindly spirit such as I have just read 
in the "Sunday Times/' 1 

To-day I am just out of prison, having finished the 
score of the new opera at 3.15 A.M., and I feel strange 
at having nothing to do except rehearsing. By the way, 
if you want to know what the music, pure and simple, is 
like, you will find a full rehearsal of band and voices 
going on at St. Andrew's Hall [Wells Street, London] 
on Wednesday next, from 11 A.M. onwards. 

About Leeds I could tell you much, but cannot write 
it. As H. K. suggests, I hope they won't take a foreigner 
as my successor. If they do, it will be a terrible disap- 
pointment to someone. 

Ever yours sincerely, 

ARTHUR SULLIVAN. 

The Leeds conductorship was eventually bestowed 
upon Sir C. Villiers Stanford. There was never, 
indeed, much danger of the "hated foreigner " be- 
ing appointed. Probably the only conductor, not 
an Englishman by birth, who would have stood a 
chance was Georg Henschel, and he, so far as I 
am aware, was not among the candidates for the 
vacant position. 

More than a quarter of a century has passed 

1 This refers to a notice of his setting of Kudyard Kipling 'a 

sent-mii 

202 



Musical Life in London 



since Mr. Henschel made his debut in England, and 
his wide circle of friends there must long ago have 
made up their minds to regard him in the light 
of a British subject. When he first came I saw a 
good deal of him, and, curiously enough, his late 
gifted wife, then Miss Lillian Bailey, lived oppo- 
site our house in Bentinck Street, where we could 
hear by the hour her sweet, penetrating tones as 
she labored steadfastly at those old florid Italian 
airs, the study of which furnishes the sole true 
medium for the acquisition of a fine vocal tech- 
nique. After he had terminated his connection with 
the Boston Symphony Concerts, Mr. Henschel per- 
manently settled down in London, and there for 
many years he shared the principal concert work 
with the eminent and evergreen barytone, Charles 
Santley. As singer, as composer, as conductor, as 
accompanist, and as* teacher, Henschel long ago 
demonstrated his remarkable talent and his even 
more extraordinary versatility. In a word, he has 
fairly earned the right to be called the " Admirable 
Crichton" of his art. 

In the autumn of 1886, Mr. Henschel started the 
enterprise known as the London Symphony Con- 
certs, which he carried on with conspicuous skill 
for several years. Unfortunately, their pecuniary 
results offered an inadequate return for the care 
and energy that were bestowed upon the rendering 
of a singularly eclectic and interesting series of 
programmes. Truth to tell, Mr. Henschel never 
figured in the public mind as a great or even a 

203 



Musical Life in London 



strong conductor. His readings of the classical 
masterpieces might be conscientious and artistic, 
but they lacked individuality, force, and warmth. 
On the other hand, the vocal recitals which he 
gave with the aid of his accomplished wife never 
failed to attract, by virtue of the unique interpre- 
tative charm with which the two singers invested 
their delightful selections. 



204 




From a photograph by The London Stereoscopic & Photographic Company, Limited 

SIR AUGUSTUS HARRIS 



CHAPTEE X 

x 

Augustus Harris and Italian opera An ambitious scheme To 
France and Spain in search of artists Engaging the De 
Reszkes The great tenor's early career Madrid and 
Mancinelh An amateur bull-fight Seville Opening of the 
Drury Lane season Jean de Eeszke's triumph A bary- 
tone's temper. 

EARLY in the spring of 1887, I was lunching 
one day with Augustus Harris at the old 
Albion Restaurant, opposite Drury Lane Theatre. 1 
As a rule, the busy manager allowed himself, at 
most, twenty minutes for his midday meal (a year 
or two later he allowed himself no lunch at all) ; 
but on this particular day he lingered over his cof- 
fee, called for cigars, and proceeded to deliver him- 
self of what was, to me, a wholly unexpected piece 
of news. Leaning back against the upright wooden 
partition which separated the tables in the old- 
fashioned dining-room, and with a bright, familiar 
gleam in his penetrating eyes, he said : 

1 The resort, in the days before theatrical clubs existed, of all 
the best-known actors and managers in London. The walls of 
the smoking-parlor were hung with portraits of Sarah Siddons, 
John Philip Kemble, Charles Kemble, Edmund Kean, Macready, 
and other histrionic celebrities of the century. What became of 
the pictures I cannot say; but the place, if not yet pulled down, 
has been used for some years as a kind of warehouse. 
10 

2O7 



Thirty Years of 



1 1 Klein, I have made up my mind to do some- 
thing big." 

This was not very astonishing. Augustus Harris 
was always doing "something big." His panto- 
mime and autumn dramas were the very biggest 
things of their kind ; and in the summer of the pre- 
vious year he had mounted a new comic opera by 
Herve, entitled "Frivoli," which was at once the 
costliest spectacle and the most dismal failure of 
his managerial career. This recollection suggested 
a rather cruel expression of hope on my part that 
he did not intend going in for more French opera- 
bouffe. He smiled and shook his head : 

"No; it is to be the real thing this time. What 
I am going to do is to give a month of Italian 
opera on a large scale at Dury Lane, at the height 
of the London season!" 

Still smiling, Harris stared hard at me, to judge 
the effect of his words. I was genuinely surprised, 
and told him so. Did he not think he had sufficient 
responsibilities already without launching his ship 
upon the treacherous waters of Italian opera, which 
had wrecked one English impresario after another, 
and profited none? 

" I know. But why should I suffer the same fate ? 
Why should not opera pay, provided it be well 
done? All this talk about Italian opera being 
1 moribund' is merely because the management of 
it has been going from bad to worse, because so- 
ciety is no longer interested and the public has 
lost confidence. Look at what Carl Rosa has done 

208 



Musical Life in London 



and is doing for English opera ! He has won over 
the public, and makes money in the provinces, if 
he can't in London. See what Lago did last year 
at Covent Garden with what I consider a mediocre 
company and limited resources ! Economy helped 
him out, it is true; but at least he proved that 
Italian opera was still gasping! He is going to 
try again this year; this time, however, I mean to 
show him that ' opera on the cheap' is not what 
London actually wants. He may get the old fogies 
and habitues at Covent Garden; I intend to draw 
the real aristocracy to Drury Lane. ' ' 

I saw that he was serious, and I realized that 
his conclusions, to some extent, were just. Grand 
opera in its noblest form, of whatever school or 
language, if adequately presented, could not die 
in England any more than in other countries of 
equivalent musical calibre. And England, I may 
say, is now not half so "unmusical" as it is habitu- 
ally depicted. Without the aid of a state sub- 
vention, opera upon a "grand" scale all the year 
round might be impossible. But not even for three 
months in the year would society, or, indeed, any 
section of the public, be willing to purchase guinea 
stalls and pay high prices all round for perform- 
ances of only moderate excellence, supported by 
two or three l i stars ' ' and an otherwise second-rate 
personnel. I agreed that Lago could not go on 
long under present conditions, and I told my com- 
panion that I thought he might stand a chance if 
he could contrive to get together a strong company. 

209 



Thirty Years of 



< < There," said Harris, "is where you can be of 
service to me, if you care to. ' ' I replied that in 
such a good cause I should be only too delighted 
to assist him in every possible way. "Then," he 
continued, "come abroad with me at Easter. I 
have already prepared the ground in several di- 
rections. I have even engaged my conductor a 
man quite unknown, but said to be very clever 
Luigi Mancinelli. He is now conducting at Ma- 
drid, and I want you to go there with me to listen 
to some artists whom he has recommended." I 
said that I would do so with the utmost pleasure. 
Then suddenly an idea occurred to me, and I con- 
tinued : 

"I know of a splendid tenor for you if you can 
get him. He sang here years ago as a barytone, 
but is really a tenor, and I heard him last summer 
at the Paris Opera in *Le Cid.' He has a mag- 
nificent voice and is a thorough artist. ' ' 

"You mean Jean de Keszke," broke in Harris. 
"I have been told about him, but have not quite 
decided what to do." 

"Don't hesitate. He will make a great hit here 
now; and his brother Edouard, who has already 
sung at Covent Garden and has the finest bass voice 
in the world, of course will have to come too." 

' * I shall see if I can get them both, ' ' said the new 
impresario, and with that we parted. 

In less than a fortnight the two brothers were 
engaged Jean at 100 ($500) a night, and Edou- 
ard at 320 ($1600) a month salaries which they 

210 



Musical Life in London 



were then well content to accept. 1 In such fashion 
did the preparations for the campaign commence, 
quietly and without fuss. For the moment every- 
thing was kept secret. The pantomime had not 
yet run its course, and there was still a four weeks' 
Carl Rosa season to be held at Drury Lane during 
the month of May. Augustus Harris naturally de- 
sired, therefore, that the public should not be in- 
formed until his plans were more matured. At 
Easter we started together for Paris, en route for 
Spain. 

Little did I then dream that the mission upon 
which we were setting out was to have results of 
far-reaching magnitude; that it was to affect the 
whole future of opera in England, and also in 
an appreciable degree the nature and methods of 
operatic enterprise in the United States. Still less 
did I imagine that the words which turned the 
balance in favor of the engagement of Jean de 
Reszke were also to mark the turning-point in the 
singular career of that illustrious artist to lift 
him from the sluggish waters of the stream of 

1 It has been asserted that M. Jean de Eeszke *s services were 
offered in 1886 to Signer Lago at a very moderate salary, and 
refused. There is good reason to doubt the accuracy of that 
statement. It is possible, of course, that some musical agent in 
London or Paris did offer to try to secure the new tenor for 
Signer Lago ; but if so, it was not done at M. de Eeszke 's instiga- 
tion. And in any case the " refusal" would not have come so 
much from the impresario as from Signer Gayarre, who was at 
the back of the concern, and would assuredly have objected to 
the engagement of an artist who might prove a formidable rival 
to himself. 

211 



Thirty Years of 



Parisian operatic life; to pave the way for his 
brilliant rise to fame in the two great English- 
speaking lands; and to lay the foundation of a 
friendship that should enable me materially to 
aid in kindling those Wagnerian aspirations which 
have borne such precious and universally cher- 
ished fruit. 

The position of affairs should now be tolerably 
clear to the reader. I have traced the influence of 
Carl Rosa upon Augustus Harris through the dark 
period that followed upon the collapse of the Gye 
regime. I have demonstrated the mighty power 
that was wielded by Wagnerian and German opera 
in the education both of the managers and the 
music-loving communities for whom they catered. 
In London, at least, the hour for the operatic 
renaissance had arrived, and with it the man. In 
America, no doubt, the time for reaping the new 
harvest was also near at hand. Mapleson, who 
had all but reached the end of his tether at home, 
could no longer send to America Italian compa- 
nies worthy of attention. The sole European at- 
traction upon whom an American manager could 
rely with certainty was Mme. Patti a name to 
conjure with any time these forty years a genius 
whose light gives no sign even now of growing 
dim. On the other hand, German opera, thanks 
to the crusade so bravely led by Dr. Leopold Dam- 
rosch, had become firmly established in New York, 
and the love of Wagner had entered even more 
.deeply into the hearts of the people there than 

212 



Musical Life in London 



in London. Consequently, the time was ripe for 
a bolder and more extended movement on both 
sides of the Atlantic. In due course it came. 

But to return to our journey. Augustus Harris 
made the briefest possible stay in Paris. We ar- 
rived in the morning and called upon Choudens, 
the publisher, to arrange for the exclusive English 
rights, as far as they could be secured, of certain 
popular French operas. This done, we took break- 
fast with M. and Mme. Edouard de Reszke and 
their family, including, of course, Jean, then a 
lively bachelor of less than forty. Edouard re- 
membered me at once, and reminded me of our 
last merry meeting at the dinner given by Pauline 
Lucca. 

The elder brother made a great impression both 
upon Harris and myself. Already an enormous fa- 
vorite in Paris, Jean de Reszke seemed to be wholly 
free from affectation or conceit; in a word, a de- 
lightful man and a thorough gentleman. His con- 
versation was marked by ease and freedom, and it 
offered a fascinating combination of humor and in- 
tellectuality. He then spoke very little German 
and still less English, though as a boy he had 
studied both languages. French and Italian, of 
course, he spoke fluently; indeed, in the former 
tongue his accent was so pure and his diction so 
correct that, had I not known him to be a Pole, I 
should readily have taken him for a Parisian. 

The arrangements between Jean de Eeszke and 
his new impresario were quickly settled. He would 

213 



Thirty Years of 



make his appearance on the opening night in 
"Aida," and follow this up as quickly as possible 
by singing Lohengrin (in Italian) for the first time 
on any stage. He realized that London had known 
him as a barytone, and he was anxious to make 
manifest without delay that he was a genuine tenor. 
I asked him how the mistake had first arisen. 

"It is difficult to say/ 7 he replied. "We were 
always a musical family, and accustomed to attend 
operatic performances whenever there were any 
going on in Warsaw. My parents were both very 
musical, and my mother had a fine soprano voice. 
I remember once, in Warsaw, her singing the duet 
from 'Semiramide' with Trebelli. When I was 
only fifteen I began to take lessons from Ciaffei, 
an old tenor, who was a professor at the Conserva- 
toire at Warsaw. He decided that I was a bary- 
tone, and what part do you think he gave me to 
study firstlLeporeUo! Notwithstanding this, I 
always had good high notes. When I made my 
debut at the Fenice at Venice, in 1874, in the *Fa- 
vorita,' I finished up the caballetta with a ringing 
A natural. The real test, of course, lies in the capa- 
city for sustaining the tessitura. A barytone may 
be able to bring out a B flat or even a B natural, 
but no example has yet been known of a barytone 
who was capable of sustaining the tenor tessitura 
through long and heavy roles. The thing is a rank 
impossibility. ' ' 

I inquired how long he had given himself to ef- 
fect the necessary change of method. 

214 



Musical Life in London 



' ' Two years, of which I spent part in Paris and 
part in Poland. That was from 1877 to 1879. I 
made my reappearance at Madrid as Roberto, and 
was immediately hailed as a real tenore robusto. 
I assure you I found it much more easy and com- 
fortable than singing barytone. My voice at the 
end of the performance felt a great deal less fa- 
tigued. But I still had to work very, very hard to 
feel myself thoroughly equipped at all points. 
Then there came an offer to appear here at the 
Italiens, and I sang my first French role when I 
created John ihe Baptist in ' Herodiade ' four years 
ago." 

He expressed his regret that we could not re- 
main to hear him in "Le Prophete," which he con- 
sidered his most successful opera in Paris. For my 
own part, I should have liked it above all things; 
but Augustus Harris one of the most restless 
specimens of concentrated nervous energy that ever 
lived had fully determined to proceed forthwith 
to Madrid, and no amount of persuasion could de- 
ter him from leaving Paris that same night. We 
accordingly bade the brothers "au revoir," and 
looked forward to meeting them again in London 
early in June. Thirty-six hours later we were 
safely installed in the Spanish capital. 

Our first business was to find Signor Mancinelli. 
He lived in a house overlooking some public gar- 
dens not far from the royal palace, and on the 
way thither Harris confided to me for the first 
time that he was not quite sure whether he ought 

217 



Thirty Years of 



to have engaged the man we were then going to see, 
or his brother, Marino Mancinelli, who was the con- 
ductor at the Lisbon Opera-house, and, according 
to some people, the more gifted of the two. On 
this point I was happily able to reassure my friend. 
I had not seen both brothers ; but, when at Bologna 
in 1879, I had seen Luigi Mancinelli direct at the 
Teatro Comunale a remarkably fine performance 
of Gounod's " Faust" (with a Covent Garden so- 
prano, Mile. Turolla, as Margherita), and I had 
considered him a chef-d'orchestre of the first order. 
Harris was able quickly to confirm this opinion 
for himself by means of a representation of the 
selfsame work at the Eoyal Opera-house. 

The season in Madrid was fast approaching its 
termination. The audiences, however, were still 
tolerably brilliant, and the two infantas, aunts of 
the present King of Spain, then a baby in arms, 
were present nearly every evening. Queen Chris- 
tina, naturally, did not go to the opera; but by a 
welcome chance I saw her one day at the hotel 
where we were staying in the Puerta del Sol. The 
queen-regent, who was attired in deep mourning, 
came to the hotel for the purpose of visiting some 
distinguished Russian personage whose name I 
have now forgotten; and, as Harris and I bowed 
low when she passed down the stairs, Her Majesty 
returned our salute with a gracious smile. 

Shortly after our arrival we went to pay our 
respects to the British ambassador, Sir Clare Ford, 
who received the Drury Lane manager with marked 

218 



Musical Life in London 



cordiality. He invited us to a dejeuner in honor of 
some of the opera artists, among the guests being 
the late Lord Beaconsfield's popular secretary, Lord 
Rowton, who had not long been raised to the peer- 
age. We met, among others, Gayarre; Battistini, 
the barytone ; Mme. Kupf er-Berger, a well-known 
dramatic soprano; and Guerrina Fabbri, the con- 
tralto, all of whom were subsequently engaged for 
London, with the exception of Gayarre, who was, 
as a matter of course, to be once more the principal 
tenor of Lago's season at Covent Garden. In ad- 
dition to these, a new light tenor, De Lucia, was 
also secured; and altogether, as far as the men 
were concerned, there was ample reason to be con- 
tent with the results of our visit. As regards the 
prime donne I was not equally impressed. Neither 
the two above named, nor two Italian sopranos 
recommended by Mancinelli (who then had no 
experience of English audiences), proved to be 
suited to the London operatic boards. 

One of the many attentions bestowed upon us 
by the ambassador was to send us tickets for a 
private bull-fight given by the Duchess de Alba in 
the great bull-ring at Madrid. I could not confess 
to an overwhelming desire to witness one of these 
spectacles, but I was naturally curious ; while Au- 
gustus Harris was positively anxious to see one, 
in order, as he explained, to note the necessary 
points for a realistic production of the last act of 
" Carmen. " This particular bull-fight, it seemed, 
was an extremely select annual affair, to which the 

219 



Thirty Years of 



Duchess invited all her friends, and in which the 
performers, from the matador down to the humblest 
banderillero, consisted of the fine fleur of the youth- 
ful aristocracy of Spain. They made a brave show, 
did these young fellows, in their handsome cos- 
tumes. The programmes were printed upon yellow 
satin, and the select assemblage, though not nearly 
large enough to fill the huge galleries of the Plaza 
de Toros, comprised some of the most fashionable 
families in Madrid. 

Among the ladies present was that fine artist 
Mme. Christine Nilsson, who a few months before 
had become the Countess Casa de Miranda. She 
confided to me that she did not really care for bull- 
fights, and had come solely in order to please the 
Count a statement fully to be credited from the 
manner in which she constantly used her fan to 
shut out the proceedings in the arena from her 
view. From the standpoint of sport, however, 
the affair was a dire failure. The bulls refused to 
show fight, and the amateur matadors were never 
exposed to any risk from which their agility as 
runners could not speedily have removed them. 

It was not at this absurd function that Augus- 
tus Harris obtained the real suggestions for the 
projected revival of "Carmen." We went subse- 
quently to one of the regular bull-fights at the same 
amphitheatre, and at this he made plentiful notes 
for the procession of the Alcade, the picadors on 
horseback, and the group of banderilleros, for all 
of whom he ordered real and costly Spanish cos- 

22O 



Musical Life in London 



tumes. He even arranged for an exact copy of the 
curious hurdle-like contrivance, drawn by three 
ponies, which is employed in dragging the bodies 
of the dead horses and bulls out of the arena. Not 
satisfied with this, we paid a twenty-four hours' 
visit to Seville in order to obtain touches of the 
true couleur locale. We went to the great cigar 
and cigarette factory where Carmen is supposed 
to conduct herself with so much impropriety. We 
obtained photographs of the Giralda Tower; we 
sketched the entrance to the Plaza de Toros; and 
we gathered together every authentic detail that it 
was possible to procure for uniforms, costumes, 
and scenery. Thus it was that the mise en scene 
of "Carmen," as mounted by Augustus Harris, 
proved to be by far the most accurate and pictur- 
esque that had ever been vouchsafed to Bizet's 
opera. 

I must not dwell longer upon the events of this 
interesting Spanish trip ; nor is it necessary to de- 
scribe in further detail the preparations for the 
Drury Lane Italian season. Enough to say that 
the troupe finally collected by Augustus Harris 
was the strongest heard in London for several 
years. The opening representation of "Aida" on 
June 13, with brand-new costumes and fresh 
scenery expressly imported from Italy, fairly took 
critics and opera-goers by surprise. The triumph 
of Jean de Beszke was instantaneous and complete. 
Here, at last, was the great tenor for whom the 
world had been waiting since the death of Giuglini 

221 



Thirty Years of 



and the retirement of Mario ! Edouard de Reszke 
was unable to leave Paris in time for this per- 
formance, but he arrived later in the month, and 
worthily supported his brother on their debuts in 
"Lohengrin." On the whole, despite Mme. Kup- 
fer-Berger's vocal shortcomings as Aida and Elsa, 
the rendering of both Verdi 's and Wagner 's operas 
aroused the admiration of experts; while the in- 
spiring zeal and magnetism of Luigi Mancinelli 
were readily recognized. > 

Soon London began to talk. It was a new thing 
to find a series of operas placed nightly upon the 
stage with the highest care and efficiency, and dis- 
tinguished not only by a rare liberality in the 
mounting, but by the improving touches of a stage- 
manager courageous enough to sweep away the 
more absurd anachronisms that disfigure the tradi- 
tions of Italian opera, and capable of replacing 
them with artistic and appropriate ideas of his 
own. Naturally the audiences did not numerically 
realize Harris's hopes. His losses, especially dur- 
ing the first fortnight of his four weeks' season, 
amounted to many thousands of pounds. But any 
comparison between the work that he was doing 
and the dull representations at Covent Garden, or 
the still more slipshod performances at Her Ma- 
jesty's, 1 was all in favor of the new impresario. 

a Here Mapleson was making one of his expiring efforts. Its 
only noteworthy features were a revival of "Fidelio" with Lilli 
Lehmann, now heard for the first time in one of her great parts; 
and a solitary appearance of Patti in "La Traviata." But the 
public refused to respond, and, no more capital being available, 
the ill-starred campaign quickly ended. 

222 



Musical Life in London 



The Prince and Princess of Wales, who had at once 
become ardent admirers of Jean de Eeszke, came 
several times to hear him. By degrees society fol- 
lowed, more suo, the royal example ; and, just when 
the brief campaign was reaching its close, people 
began to perceive that Italian opera, so called, as 
given at Drary Lane, was a still vital and attrac- 
tive art-product. 

But the successes of the season were not all for 
the Polish brothers. Among the procession of old 
and new friends that traversed the scene were some 
very notable figures. I recall an exceedingly good 
performance of "Don Giovanni " with Maurel as 
the Don, Minnie Hauk as Zerlina, and Lillian 
Nordica (little more than a debutante, and not yet 
the favorite that she was to become later) as Donna 
Elvira. I remember the debuts of Marie Engle as 
Adalgisa, of Sigrid Arnoldson as Rosina, of Amelia 
Groll as Donna Anna, of De Lucia as Alfredo, of 
Battistini as Rigoletto, and of Navarrini as Ramfis. 
Again, there was Del Puente, sympathetic as ever, 
in his old parts of Escamillo and Germont pere; 
while the veteran barytone Pandolfini was still 
fine as Amonasro, which role he was the first to 
sing at Milan and Paris. Glancing at these names, 
American readers will be able to judge for them- 
selves not only of the extraordinary merit of the 
new ensemble, but of the extent to which it em- 
braced the practically " untried " talent that was 
to constitute in after years the best part of the 
brilliant constellation revolving in their own oper- 
atic firmament. 

223 



Thirty Years of 



The proudest night of the month for Harris was 
that on which he revived "Les Huguenots" with 
a splendid cast, and in such fashion as to make 
old habitues declare that "the son had beaten 
the father at his own game." Imagine Jean de 
Reszke at this time as Raoul! Always remarkable 
for its refinement, distinction, and passionate 
warmth, his impersonation was just then peculiarly 
imbued with the spirit of the true Meyerbeer school. 
Alike in a vocal and a histrionic sense, it was su- 
premely great. His "velvety" tones, fresh, clear, 
and mellow as a bell, were emitted with an un- 
sparing freedom that would thrill the listener not 
once, but twenty times, in the course of a single 
scene. There was no "saving up" for the last act 
then; it was "laissez aller" throughout, with 
plenty to spare at the finish. And what tender- 
ness, withal, in that famous grand duet of the 
fourth act! Not Mario himself had phrased the 
"Tu m'ami, tu m'ami!" (this was still an Italian 
performance) with a greater wealth of delicious 
surprise and pent-up adoration. Little wonder 
that Nordica nearly lost her head through ner- 
vousness and emotion. It was the very first time 
she sang Valentine; she had studied the part 
in less than a week, and for a young, inexpe- 
rienced artist, so youthful, so pretty, so win- 
ning that she fascinated others beside Raoul, 
her achievement was in the highest degree credi- 
table. The fifth act, generally suppressed in Eng- 
land, was on this occasion duly given, but the 

224 




MAUREL 

AS DON GIOVANNI 



Musical Life in London 



noise of the firing and the smoke from the gun- 
powder proved too much even for Augustus 
Harris. It was subsequently omitted, as usual. 

Thanks to the vagaries of one of the artists, this 
memorable performance came near to not being 
given at all. The opera was to have begun at eight 
o 'clock, but it was quite a quarter past before Man- 
cinelli took his place in the orchestra. Then an- 
other wait ensued. Thinking there must be some- 
thing amiss, I went behind the scenes to make in- 
quiries. I was informed that there was trouble 
with the principal barytone, and that if I went to 
his room I should find Mr. Harris there. I hur- 
ried to the dressing-room, and found that a lively 
dispute was going on between artist and manager. 
The latter, as usual in an emergency, was calm, 
self-possessed, and apparently in the best of tem- 
pers; the singer was gesticulating wildly and 
nearly beside himself with rage. I ventured to 
ask what was the matter. 

' ' Matter ! ' ' shouted the indignant barytone. ' ' Do 
you see this specimen of an English-made costume f 
Did you ever gaze upon such a disgraceful fit? 
How am I supposed to play a fastidious gentleman 
like Nevers, and go upon the stage in a doublet 
that his valet would have declined to put on ? Look 
at this right sleeve! It fits so abominably that I 
have had to tear it clean away at the shoulder to 
make it hang decently !" 

Looking closely at the garment, I did indeed per- 
ceive that it was torn at the seam under the arm ; 

227 



Thirty Years of 



but otherwise there was nothing wrong with it. 
A richer and handsomer doublet no reasonable 
Comte de Nevers could have desired to wear, and 
I told the gentleman what I thought. He flung him- 
self into a chair, and declared that he positively 
refused to go on the stage in such a costume. 

Matters were now becoming rather serious. In 
the next room I could hear Jean de Eeszke and 
Edouard getting their respective voices into trim 
by the execution of aerial flights and descents into 
the depths below. Moreover, I could hear the au- 
dience in the distance stamping and clapping their 
hands with impatience. I turned to Harris, and 
asked him whether another Nevers was available. 

"I have sent for Del Puente," he replied, "but 
I am not sure that we shall be able to find him. ' ' 
Then, struck by a sudden idea, Harris addressed 
himself once more to the recalcitrant barytone: 
" Listen, monsieur. Your complaint about this 
costume is merely a bit of caprice. It fits you per- 
fectly well; and even though you have torn the 
sleeve, a pin or two will easily put that right. I 
now ask you to let this performance commence. If 
you do not, I shall go before the curtain and tell 
the audience exactly why it is that they are being 
kept waiting. " 

I added a word to the effect that I should not 
fail to give my colleagues of the press a precise 
and particular account of what had occurred, un- 
less the artist instantly put an end to a situation 
that was at once ridiculous and offensive to the 

228 



Musical Life in London 



public. The effect of this double shaft was elec- 
trical. A moment later the irate singer had risen 
and called for pins, and the incident was closed. 
Less than half a dozen people knew what had 
happened, for the secret of the delay was not 
allowed to leak out. The opera began, without 
comment, half an hour late, and, thanks to the 
Comte de Nevers and the fifth act, it was not over 
until nearly one o'clock in the morning. 



229 



CHAPTER XI 

The Operatic Renaissance Royalty and society interested A 
brilliant Covent Garden season Debut of Melba The fa- 
mous " French Trio " : their life in London A vocal duel 
Bayreuth in the first ' i Meistersinger " year A visit to Ems 
and its consequences. 

SIE ABTHUB SULLIVAN once described an 
English triennial festival as a kind of musical 
boa-constrictor which so overfed itself during a 
given week that it required the whole of the inter- 
vening three years to go through the operation of 
digesting the feast. Some such period of rest for 
the purpose of assimilation would appear to have 
been needed by the metropolis after the Gargantuan 
operatic banquet which it enjoyed during the sum- 
mer of 1887. At any rate, ten consecutive months 
elapsed before serious opera was again heard there. 
Even Carl Rosa kept severely in the provinces, 
contenting himself with a revival of Balf e 's opera, 
' ' The Puritan 's Daughter, ' ' and producing, for the 
first time in English, Meyerbeer's "L'Etoile du 
Nord" and Halevy's "La Juive." The annual 
visit to Drury Lane had now become, indeed, a 
thing of the past. 

But in the meantime Augustus Harris was not 
idle. Quick to perceive the effect that his brilliant 

230 




Copyright by A. Dupont, N. Y. 

MELBA 

AS MARGUERITE 



Musical Life in London 



little season had created, and feeling pretty sure 
that he had frightened all his rivals out of the 
field, he set about preparing the ground for still 
more extended operations in the near future. His 
heavy loss over the initial experiment did not 
trouble him. "I shall recoup myself/' he said, 
"with the aid of society. I shall work this time 
upon a totally different plan. Instead of burden- 
ing myself with the whole responsibility, I shall 
have the support of the leaders of fashion and be 
guaranteed a big subscription before I start. ' ' This 
sounded both wise and promising; but I asked, 
"Do you expect the leaders of fashion and their 
following to come to Drury Lane?" "Certainly 
not," was Harris's reply. "I have every inten- 
tion, all being well, of taking Covent Garden at the 
earliest practicable date, and directing the regular 
season of the 'Royal Italian Opera' there next 
summer." 

The secret of the manager's ambition was out 
at last. He had only used his own theatre as the 
stepping-stone. He had wanted to prove that he 
was equal to the task; and, with such material as 
he could now command, the rest seemed compara- 
tively easy. However, there was an enormous 
amount of work yet to be done. He needed all his 
friends to help him in the good cause ; and I, for 
one, earnestly begged him to consider me always 
at his disposal. My duties as a critic had not so 
far proved an obstacle to the exercise of friendly 
offices, freely (and, of course, gratuitously) vouch- 

233 



Thirty Years of 



safed; nor had my interest in the enterprise pre- 
vented me from writing about every performance 
with perfect impartiality. Harris knew this as well 
as I did, and his thanks, both then and always, 
were expressed with the utmost heartiness. 

But for the accomplishment of the next im- 
portant step, Augustus Harris owed nearly every- 
thing to the enthusiasm and influence of Lady de 
Grey and Lady Charles Beresf ord. These popular 
women, veritable pillars of society, had already 
watched with something more than superficial in- 
terest the progress of the Drury Lane experiment. 
They were devoted lovers of opera, and intense 
admirers as well as personal friends of the de 
Reszkes. What more natural than that they should 
desire to see the personnel of the Harris establish- 
ment transferred to its proper home, shining in a 
worthy atmosphere amid fitting and congenial 
surroundings? All the impresario stipulated was 
that a certain number of boxes should be sub- 
scribed for. This was enough for the two ladies. 
With the aid of Mr. Harry V. Higgins, brother-in- 
law of Lady de Grey, they immediately began the 
hunt for subscribers, restricting their canvass, of 
course, to such members of the " smart set" as 
would be acceptable to themselves and their 
friends; and this, of course, was only an added 
inducement to join it. The requisite number of 
boxes were speedily taken up, and by a certain 
date the fair canvassers went to Mr. Harris with 
their list. 

234 






Musical Life in London 



Meanwhile the astute manager must have got 
wind of the success that was attending the search. 
At any rate, he suddenly discovered that he had 
been too modest in his demands. It began to occur 
to him that Co vent Garden Theatre and its con- 
tents, including piles of well-worn costumes and 
stacks of shabby, useless scenery, were now get- 
ting into an extremely dilapidated condition, and 
that in all probability it would cost him an outlay 
of two or three thousand pounds to renovate the 
opera-house sufficiently for occupation by a high- 
class troupe and an aristocratic abonnement. He 
was afraid that unless so many more boxes were 
subscribed for, he would not dare venture to lease 
the theatre. Lady de Grey and Lady Charles Beres- 
ford obligingly saw the reasonableness of the re- 
quest, and tried again to such good purpose that 
within a few hours nearly all of the boxes on 
the grand and pit tiers were definitely allotted. 
This time Harris simply beamed with delight. 
He saw himself the proud impresario of Co vent 
Garden, with the largest subscription known for 
years; and that, for the moment, may be said 
to have constituted the summit of his ambitions. 

During the extensive preparations which now en- 
sued, London, as I have already hinted, troubled 
itself little about opera. Music-lovers found ample 
food for enjoyment in their "Pops," at which 
Clara Schumann, Joachim, Neruda, Charles Halle, 
Fanny Davies (now the most popular English 
pianist of her sex), and Piatti were the leading 

235 



Thirty Years of 



lights. They took pleasure in listening to fresh 
examples of English talent, such as Cowen's fine 
"Scandinavian" symphony, his oratorio "Ruth," 
and his cantata "The Sleeping Beauty"; Stan- 
ford's "Irish" symphony; Parry's oratorio "Ju- 
dith"; J. F. Bridge's cantata "Callirhoe"; Stain- 
er's "Crucifixion"; and Hamish MacCunn's 
overture "The Land of the Mountain and the 
Flood." The Philharmonic Society gave a most 
interesting season, with Frederic Cowen (vice Sir 
Arthur Sullivan) as conductor. Mme. Schumann 
played at the opening concert; and subsequently 
two famous masters, Edvard Grieg and Peter 
Iljitsch Tschaikovsky, made their first appear- 
ances in England, the former playing his concerto 
in A minor, while the latter conducted his seren- 
ade for strings and the variations from his third 
orchestral suite. The wonderful <boy pianists, 
Josef Hofmann and Otto Hegner, made their 
London debuts; and Hans von Biilow, returning 
after a six years' absence, executed his "Bee- 
thoven Cyclus" at what proved to be his last 
series of performances in an English concert- 
room. Von Biilow was a great pianist, but a 
much greater conductor. 

On Monday, May 14, Augustus Harris inau- 
gurated his first Covent Garden season. 1 The as- 

*! may mention that the impresario owed a great deal, during 
his entire period of operatic management, to the loyal and de- 
voted services of his " right-hand man" and alter ego, Mr. Fred 
G. Latham, who subsequently, for several years, exercised simi- 
lar functions in America for Mr. Maurice Grau. 

236 



Musical Life in London 



pect of the house offered the strongest possible 
contrast to the records of the preceding ten years. 
The Prince and Princess of Wales headed one of 
those brilliant assemblages that were formerly as- 
sociated only with ' ' Patti nights, ' ' and altogether 
there was abundant evidence that, with the re- 
awakening of an exalted social interest, the for- 
tunes of the ' ' Royal Italian Opera ' ' were once more 
in the ascendant. The de Reszkes did not appear 
at the outset. With wise diplomacy, the impre- 
sario kept back for a space his strong trump card, 
and in the interim showed his new subscribers that 
he possessed alike the ability and the resources for 
presenting their favorite operas with attractive en- 
sembles and fresh features of stage treatment. In 
"Lucrezia," the opening opera, the perennial Tre- 
belli filled her old part of Maffio Orsini; in "Car- 
men" the gipsy was impersonated for the first 
time by Nordica; a successful debut was made as 
MicJiaela by Marguerite Macintyre, a pupil of 
Manuel Garcia; in "La Traviata" Ella Russell 
appeared; in "Faust" Albani and Trebelli; in 
"Don Giovanni" Sigrid Arnoldson, Fiirsch-Madi, 
and D'Andrade. 

Then, on the 24th, was given "Lucia di Lammer- 
moor," for the debut at Covent Garden of a new 
light soprano who had been winning laurels 
at the Brussels Monnaie. This was Mme. Melba. 
For months we had been reading wonderful 
accounts of Mme. Marchesi's Australian pupil, 
and curiosity concerning her vocal powers had been 

237 



Thirty Years of 



roused to a high pitch. It was not actually her first 
appearance before a London audience. She had 
sung two years before, under her own name of 
Mrs. Nellie Armstrong, at a concert at Prince's 
Hall (now the Prince's Restaurant in Piccadilly) ; 
but, beyond admiring the quality of her voice, I 
had not been much impressed by her efforts on that 
occasion. Augustus Harris also heard her in 1886 
at the annual dinner of the Royal General The- 
atrical Fund, at which he presided. She had been 
introduced by Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and sang, of 
course without fee, the "Ave Maria" of Gounod. 
But it was not until nearly a year later that Harris 
was preparing his Drury Lane season, and then, 
naturally, he gave no thought to "Mrs. Arm- 
strong," who was working hard with Marchesi in 
Paris. 1 

Mme. Melba 's initial success at Covent Garden 
was not wholly unequivocal. The audience, truly, 

1 In the "Daily News" (London) my esteemed colleague Percy 
Betts recently gave the following amusing account of the narrow 
escape that Mme. Melba had of being engaged for English opera 
during her visit to London in 1886: "Mr. Ganz, very naturally, 
thought a great deal of her voice, and promised to introduce her 
to Carl Rosa. Mme. Melba at that time was extremely anxious 
to go upon the operatic stage in this country rather than in 
Paris, for she was diffident as to her French accent. It was there- 
fore practically arranged that if he approved of her voice Carl 
Eosa should engage her for five years, on the sort of sliding scale 
which he at that time adopted; although the terms were very 
moderate indeed. An appointment was made for a certain day 
and hour at Mr. Ganz's house, and Carl Rosa scribbled a note on 
his shirt sleeve. The busy impresario doubtless forgot that, 
owing to the exigencies of the laundry, unless a note pencilled 

238 



Musical Life in London 



went into raptures and gave her an enthusiastic 
reception. But in the light of calmer judgment 
the critics took exception to certain "manner- 
isms" of style; and I, for one, while noting the 
extraordinary beauty of her timbre and her exceed- 
ingly brilliant vocalization, was fain to declare that 
her singing was "to an extent deficient in that 
indescribable something which we call charm"; 
that "her accents lacked the ring of true pathos"; 
and that, despite admirable intelligence, "the gift 
of spontaneous feeling had been more or less de- 
nied her." As an actress she still had everything 
to learn. In point of fact, it was not during this 
season that Melba began to build up the pyramid 
of her real London triumphs. The raising of that 
structure commenced only after another twelve- 
month of hard study and practical stage experi- 
ence. 

The impatience with which the return of the de 
Reszkes was awaited can be better imagined than 
described. It was emphasized by the fact that they 
were to be accompanied by their friend and con- 
frere Jean Lassalle, and that the "French Trio," 
as they were subsequently rather inaptly desig- 
nated, would make their rentrees together in a 
gorgeous revival of " L'Af ricaine. " That was a 
great night. The house was literally crammed 

on a shirt cuff is transferred the same night to the diary it is 
apt to be overlooked altogether. In the result the appointment 
entirely slipped Carl Bosa's memory, and Mme. Melba, after wait- 
ing at Harley Street for an hour or two, very naturally got 
impatient, and declined further to entertain the matter. n 

2 39 



Thirty Years of 



from floor to ceiling, and the Prince and Princess 
of Wales led the applause that greeted the now 
famous Polish tenor on making his debut upon the 
stage of Covent Garden in the role of Vasco di 
Gama. He sang magnificently, while Lassalle's 
Nelusko was, if possible, more fervid, more pictur- 
esque than ever. Nordica was less well suited as 
Selika than as Marguerite in ' ' Faust, ' ' which part 
she sang with the three distinguished artists later 
in the season. Altogether, though, it was a re- 
markable performance, and fairly set the seal upon 
Jean de Eeszke's renown in England, besides add- 
ing materially to Augustus Harris's prestige as a 
metteur en scene. 

While they were in London at this time, MM. de 
Reszke and Lassalle stayed at the Continental Ho- 
tel in Regent Street, where they occupied adjoining 
apartments and took their meals together. I fre- 
quently used to join them at lunch or dinner, and a 
cordial welcome always awaited me. Then we 
would chat over the events of the preceding night's 
performance, discuss its merits and deficiencies, 
and point out improvements that might be intro- 
duced in the future. It was not less amazing than 
interesting to see how these three gifted artists 
would criticize each other's gestures and attitudes. 
Sometimes they would move away the table and 
make room to go through some scene with full 
stage action going over it again and again until 
they had it to their common satisfaction. On 
these occasions I had to play the part of spectator 
and deliver my verdict upon the general effect. 

240 




is 

3 K 



Musical Life in London 



Or else we would talk "art" talk it steadily by 
the hour. And what a delight that was, with men 
whose only aim was to reach the highest goal by 
the noblest path ! How we discussed voice-produc- 
tion and breathing ! Not a detail of that wonder- 
ful subject was left untouched. Now Jean would 
show us how a tenor should manage his tones so 
as to form the perfectly equal scale. Now Lassalle 
would illustrate the marvelous simplicity of the 
"one and only" method which he designated "la 
grande ligne." Finally, Edouard would strip to 
the waist to give us an example of his extraor- 
dinary control of the abdominal muscles, whereby, 
in expanding the ribs and completely filling the 
lungs, he seemed to raise the lower half of his 
figure until, like one barrel sliding inside another, 
it had concealed itself in the vast cavity of his 
chest. 

Once, I remember, our party of four was joined 
by Tamagno when the celebrated Italian tenor was 
playing Otello at the Lyceum. "We all had supper 
together after the performance and were in the 
j oiliest of moods. Tamagno had a slight cold on 
the chest, but protested that it made no difference 
whatever in the singing quality of his head tones. 
Catarrh in the nose, he said, was fatal, but a chest 
cold made not the least difference to him. Upon 
this, Lassalle offered to wager that he could sing 
higher with his falsetto than Tamagno with his 
voce di petto. The challenge was accepted, and 
forthwith the two began a vocal duel the like of 
which I am certain I shall never hear again. Out 

243 



Thirty Years of 



came Tamagno's A's and B flats, as quickly 
responded to with the falsetto equivalents from 
Lassalle 's sturdy throat. Then the Italian went 
"one better"; and the Frenchman, in order, as he 
said, to help himself up the scale, mounted his 
chair and emitted the B natural; whereupon Ta- 
magno also stood upon his chair and brought out 
not only a high C, but a ringing D flat. Lassalle 
was now for mounting the table, but, this being 
"ruled out" as an unfair advantage over a less 
athletic opponent, he proceeded to get the neces- 
sary notes from the eminence of his chair, amid 
terrific applause from the rest of the company. 
Tamagno now made a bold dash for a D natural, 
but did not quite succeed; and as Lassalle fared 
no better, we pronounced the result a ' ' dead heat. ' ' 
Which, at that somewhat advanced hour of the 
night, was perhaps rather a blessing for the neigh- 
boring occupants of the hotel. 

One great piece of fun, in which Edouard and 
I were wont to indulge for the especial amuse- 
ment of Jean, was an imitation of the later de- 
clamatory style of Wagner. At that time neither 
brother knew by heart two consecutive bars of any 
more advanced score than that of "Lohengrin." 
Edouard, however, shared the wonderful imitative 
faculty of his elder brother, and had a sufficiently 
good notion of the character of Wagnerian recita- 
tive to be able to caricature it with facility. Ac- 
cordingly, I would improvise upon the piano a 
"fearful and wonderful" series of leitmotiven, 

244 



Musical Life in London 



varied by strange dissonances and startling modu- 
lations, which Edouard for his part would follow 
from key to key with marvelous alertness, declaim- 
ing the while the most unvocal phrases in an im- 
possible guttural language which might as easily 
have been mistaken for Chinese as for German. 
The effect of this absurd improvisation a deux 
was certainly very ludicrous, and from no one did 
it evoke heartier laughter than from the artist 
who was ere long to portray in ideal fashion the 
noblest of Wagner's heroes. 

Among the remaining features of the opera sea- 
son of 1888 to which attention may be drawn, was 
a revival of Verdi 's i i Un Ballo in Maschera, ' ' Jean 
de Keszke playing Riccardo for the first time, with 
Scalchi, Sigrid Arnoldson, and Lassalle in other 
parts. "Guillaume Tell" was given for Lassalle 
and Edouard de Eeszke; and the latter also made 
a notable hit in Boito's l i Mefistof ele, ' ' in which, 
by the way, the parts of Margherita and Helen of 
Troy were for once separately undertaken by Mar- 
guerite Macintyre and Ella Russell. I may further 
mention the highly favorable debut of Zelie de 
Lussan in her captivating embodiment of Carmen; 
while Nordica essayed for the first time the role 
of Aida with entire success. The results of the 
season of 1888 were, as a whole, artistically and 
financially satisfactory. Not only was it unat- 
tended by loss, but the attitude of Augustus 
Harris's new clientele clearly indicated that that 
all-important factor, the regular subscription, 

245 



Thirty Years of 



might hereafter be counted upon as permanent. 
This in itself was an enormous step toward regain- 
ing the path of prosperity. In the direction of 
stage reform, of greater catholicity of taste, of 
improved working in every branch of the enter- 
prise, there yet remained much to be accomplished. 

Above all, there was need to strengthen the re- 
pertory. Co vent Garden had too long furnished 
a surfeit of hackneyed Italian operas; of mod- 
ern works of the best type it offered too few. 
The genius of Wagner was represented by a paltry 
two or three of his earlier operas, and there seemed 
little, if any, prospect of the number being added 
to in the immediate future. With this thought in 
my mind, I approached Augustus Harris during 
the last days of the season and begged him to 
give the matter of the repertory his serious at- 
tention, particularly with the view to mounting, 
if possible, more of Wagner's works. 

"I shall only be too glad to do that," he said. 
"I don't exactly see yet how I am to cast the later 
Wagner operas, but that question can be left open 
for the present. Meantime, I think I should like 
to go to Bayreuth this summer. Will you come 
with me?" I replied that I had already arranged 
to go with some friends early in August. 1 

"That will be too late for me," said Harris. 
"I must be back early in August to begin the re- 

1 1 had then not long been appointed a professor of singing at 
the Guildhall School of Music, and my various duties kept me in 
town until the end of July. 

246 



Musical Life in London 



hearsals for the autumn drama. I will take Man- 
cinelli 1 with me, and let him have a lesson in 
the Wagnerian business as carried on .at ' head- 
quarters.' ' 

Three weeks later I met impresario and con- 
ductor together at Bayreuth on the day that they 
were to take their departure. Both were full 
of the wonders they had seen and heard. The 
works given that year were * t Parsifal, " ' ' Tristan, ' ' 
and "Die Meister singer " the Nuremberg opera 
for the first time at Bayreuth. I asked Harris 
which of the three he had decided to do at Covent 
Garden next season. 

"Parsifal," was his unblushing reply; "that is, 
if Frau Cosima will oblige me with the necessary 
permission. But I am afraid she won't. Seri- 
ously, though, I should like to do the 'Meister- 
singer,' even if I have to give it in Italian and 
get the text specially translated. If only Jean 
de Eeszke would sing WaltJier! See poor old 
Gudehus in the paxt here, and then imagine for 
yourself what a perfect WaltJier Jean would 
make ! ' ' 

I made no comment, but took a mental note 
of Harris's wish. It occurred to me that there 
might be a chance before long of helping him to 
realize his idea. 

1 The Italian conductor had quickly become a favorite, and 
the admiration of his undoubted gifts had been enhanced by the 
production at the Norwich Festival, in 1887, of his oratorio 
"Isaias," wherein originality and fine musicianship were alike 
conspicuous. 

249 



Thirty Years of 



My experience at Bayreuth that summer was 
wholly delightful, despite the customary heat and 
the inevitable dust. The representations were of 
transcendent excellence, the casts incomparable; 
for example, " Parsifal" with Alvary, Scheide- 
mantel, Wiegand, and Therese Malten; "Tristan 
und Isolde ' ' with Rosa Sucher and Heinrich Vogl ; 
"Die Meistersinger" with Bettaque, Gudehus, 
Friedrichs, and Reichmann. The conductors in 
turn were Hermann Levi, Felix Mottl, and Hans 
Richter. In a word, those were among the i ' palmy 
days" of the Bayreuth Festspiel. After leaving 
the sleepy old Bavarian town, I went for a fort- 
night to the Austrian Tyrol. Then, instead of re- 
turning direct to London via Cologne, I left the 
Rhine steamer at Coblenz and paid a visit of two 
or three days to Ems. 

My reason for going to Ems -was simply this : 
Jean and Edouard de Reszfee were staying there, 
together with Lassalle, and I had a special object 
in wishing to see them. I was only just in time, 
for they had all but completed their "cure," and 
were intending to be off to Poland or Paris in a 
day or two. At Ems also was Mme. Nordica, ac- 
companied by her mother; and a very pleasant 
evening we all spent together on the day of my 
arrival. Next morning I took breakfast with the 
famous trio at their hotel a prelude to what was 
to prove one of the most interesting incidents of 
my life. It was raining hard, I remember, and we 
had plenty of time to linger over our coffee and 

250 



Musical Life in London 



cigars. Naturally, the conversation turned upon 
Bayreuth, and I had to give a detailed account 
of what had taken place there. This was precisely 
what I wanted. I took care, however, to dwell with 
particular frequency and emphasis upon one of the 
works that I had heard, and I referred to its beau- 
ties so often that at last Lassalle said: 

"I wish you would tell us something more about 
this l Meistersinger. ' Tell us the story ! ' ' 

I turned to Jean and Edouard : ' ' But, of course, 
you both know the plot of the ' Meistersinger. ' 
Would it not weary you to listen while I relate 
it to our friend here?" 

"Indeed no," rejoined the elder brother; "we 
have only the haziest notion of the story, and I 
should be really glad to hear it properly narrated. ' ' 

I thereupon proceeded to describe, with all the 
eloquence at my command, the manner in which 
Sir W dither von Stolzing sets about his wooing of 
the fair Eva, and how, with the aid of the poet- 
cobbler, Hans Sachs, the gallant knight eventually 
succeeds in overcoming the prejudices of the well- 
meaning mastersingers and winning the hand of 
the goldsmith's daughter. I emphasized every 
point in the comedy; I dwelt upon its rare com- 
mingling of humor and poetic sentiment; I en- 
larged upon the wondrous art of the composer in 
treating his exquisite pictures of medieval German 
life ; in short, I so brought my listeners under the 
spell of the story that at last they had wrought 
themselves up to a pitch of interest bordering 

251 



Thirty Years of 



upon excitement. A professional Persian story- 
teller could not have desired a richer reward for 
his efforts. 1 lost no time, but quickly set about 
driving the wedge home: 

"If you can find such pleasure in a simple nar- 
rative of this plot, imagine what must be the de- 
light of hearing the opera itself! And that you 
can accomplish by the simple process of going to 
Bayreuth before the end of next week!" 

I said it without seriously hoping that my ad- 
vice would be acted upon. But the influence of 
the moment was more powerful than I had im- 
agined. The three artists forthwith declared their 
intention of setting out for Bayreuth without de- 
lay ; and, to make good their words, they immedi- 
ately sent off a telegram requesting that seats 
should be reserved for the final series of repre- 
sentations. At the same time, Lassal]e, who could 
not read German, wired to Brussels for a French 
translation of the libretto, which, I believe, 
reached him in time. Mme. Nordica, who was on 
the point of leaving Ems, was duly apprised of 
their determination and invited to accompany 
them; which she did. On the following day I 
again breakfasted with the three friends this 
time on the summit of the Marlberg. I was quite 
prepared to hear that they had altered their 
minds ; but, on the contrary, they were more bent 
than ever on going. In the afternoon I left Ems 
for England. Later in the month, I received from 
Mme. Nordica this letter: 

252 



Musical Life in London 



BERLIN, August 21, 1888. 
DEAR MR. KLEIN : 

I thought you would perhaps like to know how we 
enjoyed our Bayreuth experience. Well, it was truly 
most sublime! 

My mother and I remained in Ems and went along 
with the "Monsters. ' ' And a very jolly journey we had. 
I was fortunate enough to get tickets for both operas, 
and after each act we adjourned to the cafe, hard by, 
to talk it over. I think Lassalle enjoyed it least of all. 
But at the last moment all were very triste, because, 
after all their calculations, M. Lassalle received a tele- 
gram from France calling him home to his children. 
So Jean and Edouard were obliged to "trudge" on to 
Breslau, while their friend fled back to Paris. Your 
humble servant plodded on to Berlin, and here end the 
riotous and mirthful scenes with which we are fully 
acquainted. 

I am having splendid success here. 

My mother wishes to be kindly remembered, and so 
does 

Yours very sincerely, 

LILLIAN NORDICA. 

The effect of the visit to Bayreuth was such that 
Jean de Eeszke and Lassalle decided without fur- 
ther hesitation to study "Die Meistersinger" for 
the following season. Meanwhile, a proposition 
had for some time been laid before the "trio" by 
Mapleson for a visit to the United States in the 
spring of 1889. This was seriously considered, 
and for a while it seemed highly probable that 

253 



Thirty Years of 



the famous artists would make their advent in 
America under the banner of the old impresario 
of Her Majesty's. As usual, however, the latter 
was able to command everything but the neces- 
sary capital, and so the project came to nothing. 
The advanced point reached in the negotiations is 
clearly indicated by the following letter, which I 
received early in November: 

[Translated from the French.] 

PARIS, Wednesday. 
MY DEAR FRIEND: 

At last Lassalle has returned from Lyons, and I am 
able to give you an answer on the subject of Mapleson. 
With Lassalle nothing has been signed. Mapleson has 
verbally settled the clauses of the contract, but no sig- 
natures have been exchanged; and it is even very dis- 
agreeable, because Lassalle, as a matter of delicacy, will 
accept no other engagement while Mapleson shows a 
sign of life. My brother and I have arranged the bases 
of our contracts, the salary, the repertory, the number 
of representations, etc.; but we are waiting in vain for 
the contracts. Mapleson was to have given us certain 
guarantees that we asked for, and for our part we also, 
as a matter of delicacy, are waiting until he decides to 
come and sign these clauses. There you have the truth : 
as in London, so at Ems, we talked over with Mapleson 
the whole of the project for America, discussed figures, 
and separated good friends ; but in words only in writ- 
ing not so much as a shadow ! This is very annoying for 
us, for we are refusing quite a quantity of business for 
this "unsigned" America. I hope that Mapleson will 

254 



Musical Life in London 



end by arranging the entire affair, for just now lie is 
counting a little too much, on our patience. My dear 
friend, I shall be delighted to see you at the premiere 
of " Romeo." A place will be reserved for you. Bay- 
reuth was superb! I cherish the memory of it among 
my most poetic souvenirs. A thousand friendly greet- 
ings and a shake of the hand from your devoted 

JEAN DERESZKE. 

But not until I saw him in Paris did I learn from 
Jean de Reszke 's own lips the deep and ineffaceable 
impression that the Bayreuth representations had 
left upon him. His decision to essay the role of 
Walther von Stolzing had, however, been com- 
municated to Augustus Harris without delay, as 
also the intimation that Lassalle would play Hans 
Sachs. It is not too much to say that the news filled 
the enthusiastic manager with genuine pleasure. 
He at once commissioned the late Giannandrea 
Mazzucato to prepare an Italian translation of the 
text, and bade Mancinelli mark the ' l cuts ' ' essential 
for reducing the score of "Die Meistersinger" 
to the Co vent Garden limits of that period a task 
which the worthy conductor performed with char- 
acteristic liberality. These were regrettable but 
indispensable adjuncts of an otherwise welcome ex- 
periment, the ultimate success of which was to lead 
to results infinitely more important and far-reach- 
ing than I could have dreamed when I related that 
simple story of medieval Nuremberg over the 
breakfast-table at Ems. 

255 



CHAPTER XII 

Patti and Jean de Reszke in "Rom6o et Juliette "^Historical 
night at the Paris Op6ra Carl Rosa's death The controlling 
influence at Covent Garden Lightning opera production 
" Romeo " in French; " Die Meistersinger " in Italian First 
gala night Queen Victoria and Jean de Reszke. 

A HAPPY, if fortuitous, circumstance was that 
which brought upon the same scene, toward 
the end of 1888, the two most illustrious lyric ar- 
tists of their time. The rising star of Jean de 
Reszke had displaced no more familiar planet; it 
simply filled a vacant foremost position in the con- 
stellation of operatic favorites. For some four 
years Adelina Patti had ceased to appear regularly 
in opera in London; but in the concert-room and 
upon the Continental stage she still enchanted vast 
audiences, and, in every sphere alike, the brilliant 
orb of the " queen of song" continued to blaze with 
undimmed splendor. Now, in my opinion, there 
would have been ample space for these two famous 
stars to shine in company at Covent Garden with- 
out one detracting in the smallest degree from the 
brightness of the other. Yet, with all his pluck, 
Augustus Harris never ventured upon this " great 
emprise." Whether from motives of economy or 
for some more obscure reason, I cannot say; but, 

256 




photograph by Benque & Co., Paris 



JEAN DE RESZKE 
AS ROMEO 



Musical Life in London 



if the former, he had before him the striking ex- 
ample of the "coalition season " of 1879, when Gye 
and Mapleson united their wonderful array of 
forces at Covent Garden and made between them 
a net profit of 24,000 ($120,000). 

Strangely enough, it was Paris that was to do 
the trick. That highly favored institution, the 
Academie Nationale de Musique, was to have the 
honor of including in its bill, "for a few nights 
only," the distinguished names of Adelina Patti 
and Jean de Reszke. They were no strangers. 
They had known each other in the earlier days 
when the tenor was singing as a barytone, and 
the diva had given much friendly advice and en- 
couragement to the young Pole, whom she was 
wont to address by his petit nom of ' ' Giovannini. ' ' 

The occasion that brought them together again 
was the first performance at the Grand Opera of 
Gounod 's ' ' Romeo et Juliette. ' ' Curious had been 
the history of this work in the two capitals. It 
was first produced at Paris at the Theatre-Lyrique 
in 1867, the part of Juliette being then sung by 
Mme. Miolan-Carvalho, the original Marguerite of 
Gounod's "Faust." In 1873, when the Theatre- 
Lyrique disappeared, "Romeo et Juliette" was 
transferred to the boards of the Opera-Comique, 
and at about the same time it was given at Covent 
Garden in Italian, with Mario and Patti in the title 
roles. Later on the renowned prima donna (then 
the Marquise de Caux) appeared in the same ver- 
sion with the handsome French tenor, Ernest 

259 



Thirty Years of 



Nicolini, who was subsequently to become her 
second husband. Notwithstanding these interpre- 
tative advantages, neither in Paris nor in London 
did "Borneo et Juliette" take any real hold upon 
the affections of the public. " Faust " was by far 
the most popular opera of the day. "Romeo" 
seemed to be merely tolerated because it was by 
the same composer and on account of its Shak- 
sperian subject, rather than for any intrinsic merits 
of its own. I know not which were the unkinder 
toward it, the French or the English critics. The 
latter plainly called it a dull, tedious opera. One 
of the former complained that the "symphonic 
element dominated it too much"; that the duo 
I'alouette required "more naive emotion, fewer 
heart-rending dissonances and violent cries, more 
art and more nuances ' ' ; finally, that the composer 
had "preferred to make concessions to the doc- 
trine of the music of the future, while discarding 
the exigencies of taste and ear, and making of it 
a realistic drama. ' ' l 

Autres temps, autres mceurs! During the "eight- 
ies" a distinct change of attitude began to mani- 
fest itself in Paris toward "Romeo et Juliette." 
I recollect a performance at the Opera-Comique 
in 1886, with Talazac and Adele Isaac, that de- 
lighted not only myself but a crowded and demon- 
strative house. At last Gounod, still hale and 
hearty, arranged for his work to be transferred 

1 ' ' Dictionnaire Lyrique," by Felix Clement and Pierre Larousse. 

260 



Musical Life in London 



from a stage that was too small for it to the opera- 
house where it ought originally to have seen the 
light. The directors, MM. Ritt and Gailhard, had 
the discrimination to foresee a valuable addition 
to their repertoire, and determined to mount it 
with a superb mise en scene and the finest obtain- 
able cast. Gounod himself undertook to conduct 
the inaugural performance, and, in compliance 
with the stupid traditions of the Paris Opera, he 
consented to furnish the music for a ballet, without 
which at that time no work, whatever its source, 
could obtain admission to this law-ridden stage. 

I went to Paris expressly to attend this most 
interesting premiere, which took place on Novem- 
ber 28, 1888. Seats were not only at a high pre- 
mium but virtually unobtainable, and I owed the 
possession of mine to the courtesy of Jean de 
Reszke. Many a time I have looked upon the 
heavily gilded and slightly sombre interior of the 
Paris Opera-house, but never when it contained 
such an audience, such a gathering of famous men, 
of elegant, jewel-bedecked women, as appeared 
there on that memorable night. The grandes 
dames of the French aristocracy were present, dis- 
playing a sartorial splendor that recalled the 
halcyon days of the Second Empire, and what that 
implied I can only leave my fair readers to guess. 
On taking the conductor's seat, Gounod was over- 
whelmed with acclamations. His calm, serene 
countenance wore an encouraging smile, and no 

261 



Thirty Years of 



one would have dreamed that the veteran com- 
poser was as anxious as though it were the first 
performance of a brand-new opera. 

At the outset, indeed, every one was nervous. 
Many years had elapsed since Mme. Patti had ap- 
peared at the Opera, and, often as she had enacted 
Juliette, this was the first time she had sung the 
part in French; in the waltz airlong one of her 
favorite concert-piecesshe did what was for her 
the rarest imaginable thing: she made a slip 
that carried her four bars ahead of the accom- 
paniment ("Elle sautait quatre mesures!" as 
Gounod subsequently put it). Yet, thanks to her 
extraordinary presence of mind, the great prima 
donna regained her place so quickly that probably 
not twenty persons in the audience noticed the 
error. Moreover, she sang the whole waltz with 
such grace and entrain that an encore was inevit- 
able, and on the repetition her rendering of it was 
the most brilliant I have ever heard her give. The 
youthfulness and charm of her assumption were 
astounding, while her fine acting in the more tragic 
scenes indicated a startling advance in histrionic 
force over her effort in the same opera ten years 
earlier. 

The new Romeo proved worthy of his associa- 
tion with this perfect Juliette. The mere fact that 
it was Jean de Reszke may be deemed sufficient 
guarantee of that to-day; it is not easy, however, 
to convey an idea of the striking revelation which 
his impersonation offered as, step by step, scene 

262 



Musical Life in London 



by scene, it unfolded itself for the first time upon 
the same plane with Patti's exquisite conception. 
Every attribute that distinguished the one arose, 
strong and clear-cut, in the other. Never before, 
at least in their operatic mold, had the hapless 
Veronese lovers been so faultlessly matched. 
Where was " monotony, " where was "tedium," 
now? The interest of that delicious sequence of 
love-duets acquired a fresh intensity, and became 
i i cumulative ' ' in such a degree that the final scene 
in the tomb formed a veritable climax of musical 
as well as dramatic grandeur. The genius of 
Gounod stood in a new light; and his personal 
triumph on this occasion was a fitting corollary to 
that of the great artists who were his chief inter- 
preters. Again and again did they appear before 
the curtain, hand in hand, an illustrious trio, 
to be converted into an illustrious quartet after 
Edouard de Eeszke had invested with his own 
unique organ notes the grateful phrases of Frere 
Laurent. From first to last, it was a historic per- 
formance. 1 

1 The following is the translation of a letter which Gounod ad- 
dressed to Jean de Eeszke in 1892 (the year of the composer's 
death), on the day after the tenor's appearance in the one-hun- 
dredth performance of "Borneo" at the Paris Opera: 

' ' MY DEAR JEAN : 

"You literally surpassed yourself last night. Perhaps that sur- 
prises you? It does me, too. Nevertheless, it is true. Never 
have you carried to such a height that beauty of diction and 
gesture, that correctness and expressiveness of accent, that con- 
trol of voice production in a word, that perfectly balanced pro- 
portion which alone makes the great artist by placing him beyond 



263 



Thirty Years of 



It was natural that the tremendous success now 
reported from Paris should draw the attention of 
Augustus Harris to Gounod's hitherto neglected 
opera. He immediately secured such performing 
rights as were surviving in the work, and arranged 
to give it at Covent Garden during the season of 
1889. Therewith came about a decision which was 
to lead to one of the most important innovations 
of the new regime. Why revive " Romeo" in 
Italian? Why not give it in the original French? 
The establishment in Bow Street might still bear 
the courtesy title of "The Royal Italian Opera"; 
but with two thirds of the active repertory French 
and German, this was surely a misnomer, or would 
be so but for the pious superstition that London 
society never cared for opera unless sung in Italian. 

Not only did the de Reszkes prefer to sing in 
French, but many members of the company were 
now taken from the Paris and Brussels opera- 
houses. Among them was Mme. Melba, who was 
to replace Mme. Patti as Juliette in the Covent 
Garden cast. On the whole, therefore, it was found 
easier to perform "Romeo" to the original text 
than to any other; and this happy contingency, 

the danger of extremes, the perpetual temptation of the incom- 
petent. Thanks and bravo, again and always! May heaven pre- 
serve you and leave us your beautiful art as long as possible! 
Of such as you we have great need. Eemember me to dear 
Edouard, who, like yourself, has the air of having been born in 
his role, and believe me, both of you, 

"Cordially yours, 

"Cn. GOUNOD." 

264 



Musical Life in London 



while it enhanced the London success of the opera, 
also opened Harris's eyes to the weighty fact 
that operas sounded best and were most accept- 
able to his subscribers in the language to which 
they were composed. The full demonstration 
of this truth was not to come, however, until 
later on. 

Meanwhile, a serious blow was inflicted upon the 
cause of opera in England through the death of 
Carl Rosa, which occurred in Paris on April 30, 
1889. Failing health had for some time materially 
restricted the scope of his labors; and, in the 
opinion of his best friends, he committed a signal 
error when he converted his enterprise into a lim- 
ited liability company. On the other hand, he did 
a good stroke of business when he induced Au- 
gustus Harris to unite with him and make it a 
joint undertaking. Thereby, poor fellow, he length- 
ened the life of the concern, if powerless to pro- 
long his own. I have shown before how admirably 
these gifted men worked together, and it was a 
thousand pities that they were not permitted to 
1 i run in double harness ' ' a few years longer. The 
harm wrought by this premature separation was 
serious in every way most of all, perhaps, in that 
it shifted an excessive load of work and responsi- 
bility upon the shoulders of the surviving partner. 
Augustus Harris now became managing director 
of the Carl Rosa company, as well as lessee and 
manager of Drury Lane and impresario of the 
Eoyal Italian Opera; and, even in an age of huge 



265 



Thirty Years of 



trusts and giant administrators, that was too much 
for a single individual to undertake. 

It is apropos to note here the imperceptible but 
steady growth of an influence which was to ex- 
ercise an important bearing upon the trend and 
ultimate development of the Covent Garden enter- 
prise. The subscription for the season of 1889 was 
larger than ever. The Prince of Wales (now King 
Edward VII) was taking a deep personal interest 
in the opera, and he and the Princess were among 
its most regular attendants. Closely in the royal 
wake followed an ever-augmenting section of the 
aristocracy, overflowing by this time from grand- 
and pit-tier boxes into several rows of stalls. Now, 
the " interests ' ' of these subscribers had to be 
studied, and the duty of representing them vis-d 
vis with the manager was fulfilled with much tact by 
Mr. Harry V. Higgins, the brother-in-law of Lady 
de Grey. Her ladyship never for an instant re- 
laxed the hold which her initial efforts had given 
her in the control and working of the organiza- 
tion. At first purely artistic and disinterested; 
then guided by a general consensus of opinion; 
finally, dictated by her own individual ideas the 
wishes of this indefatigable lady have grown to 
be the commands nay, the absolute law of the 
most independent opera-house in Europe. 

I do not purpose writing the "inside history" 
of this matter. Indeed, it would scarcely concern 
my present task to touch upon it at all, save for 
the purpose of rendering the progress of events 

266 




Prom a photograph by Benque & Co., Paris 

EDOUABD DE RESZKE 

AS FRERE LAURENT 



Musical Life in London 



clear to the reader. It is enough, then, to say that 
Lady de Grey (whose husband, Earl de Grey, had 
been an habitue of the opera for many years) oc- 
cupied from the outset a position of extraordinary 
power and influence. A persona grata at Marlbor- 
ough House, the intimate personal friend of Jean 
and Edouard de Eeszke, the recognized leader of 
the subscribing body, it would have been strange 
indeed had this tireless supporter of the enter- 
prise failed to become one of the most potent factors 
in its internal economy. 

During the early days of the renaissance much 
diplomacy was used by all parties. Mr. Higgins 
would convey suggestions to Mr. Harris, who 
would thereupon have a chat with Lady de Grey 
and promise to do his best to meet her wishes. 
Needless to add that they seldom passed unheeded. 
As time went on the modus operandi gradually al- 
tered. When Harris became overwhelmed with 
his various duties he was glad to rely upon Mr. 
Higgins for advice, or even to go to Lady de Grey 
"for instructions. ' ' A new prima donna had to 
be engaged, a new opera to be commissioned, a 
Continental success to be mounted, a new box- 
subscriber to be passed and admitted. Ere any 
of these things could be done it was essential that 
Lady de Grey should be consulted. So by degrees 
her word became law; and law it remains to this 
day. With the artists at Covent Garden Lady de 
Grey is very popular. With those who fail to ob- 
tain engagements she is naturally the reverse; 



13 



269 



Thirty Years of 



and I dare say she is often blamed for refusals 
for which she is not primarily responsible. 

Personally I have always found her the amiable 
lady that the world supposes her to be, despite 
the knowledge that a hand of iron is hidden be- 
neath the velvet glove. And she certainly has a 
devoted second in the present managing director 
of the Royal Opera Syndicate. The chairman, 
Earl de Grey, naturally represents his wife's 
views. The secretary, Mr. Neil Forsyth, has a 
well-earned reputation for urbanity, energy, and 
tact. On the whole, the machine works smoothly, 
and from a practical view-point nothing can be 
urged against a concern that pays its shareholders 
a regular and substantial dividend. At the same 
time much might be said regarding the artistic 
demerits of a system that depends so largely upon 
individual fancy, impulse, and even caprice. The 
best results cannot possibly be obtained where the 
personal equation is allowed to take precedence 
of loftier considerations. The most we can hope 
is that an improved standard of public taste will 
compel the observance of those higher traditions 
which lend prestige to the leading subsidized 
opera-houses, and which Augustus Harris adopted 
and handed down to his successors in a much more 
flourishing and unsullied condition than the latter 
probably have ever realized. 

The opera season of 1889 demands further atten- 
tion for at least two productions out of the three 
which it yielded. It opened, at Covent Garden, 

270 



Musical Life in London 



with Bizet's "Pecheurs de Perles," given in Italian 
with Ella Russell, Talazac, and D'Andrade in the 
cast; but the work signally failed to please. In 
June the de Reszkes returned, with Melba and Las- 
salle, and on the fifteenth a French performance 
of " Romeo et Juliette " shed lustre for the first 
time upon the annals of a London opera-house. 
The full cast was as follows: Romeo, M. Jean de 
Reszke; Frere Laurent, M. Edouard de Reszke; 
Tybalt, M. Montariol ; Mercutio, M. Winogradow ; 
Capulet, M. Seguin ; Due, M. Castelmary ; Stefano, 
Mile. Jane de Vigne; Gertrude, Mme. Lablache; 
and Juliette, Mme. Melba ; Signor Maneinelli, con- 
ductor. The chorus sang in French, and the 
mounting of the opera was almost entirely new. 
' ' Romeo ' ' attracted crowded audiences throughout 
the season. I may mention that the role of Juliette 
was subsequently filled with no less success by 
Mme. Emma Eames, who, by the way, had studied 
it under Gounod when she succeeded Mme. Patti in 
the part at the Paris Opera. 

Meanwhile preparations were in active progress 
for the eagerly awaited representation of "Die 
Meistersinger. " These were so far advanced that 
it took Mancinelli less than a month to get his ma- 
terial into highly creditable shape. To attain per- 
fection another month was, of course, needed ; but 
when, I should like to know, during or since the 
Harris era, did a difficult and unfamiliar opera 
ever receive at Co vent Garden an adequate 
allowance of time for thorough rehearsal? A 

271 



Thirty Years of 



month for a big Wagner work was considered am- 
ple, and, truth to tell, the results accomplished in 
that absurdly small space of time gave such remark- 
able satisfaction that no struggle was made to ob- 
tain a more liberal concession. London was now 
learning the lesson of lightning opera production 
which New York was to imitate later on as, for 
example, in the recent instance of Paderewski's 
"Manru." 

Both Jean de Eeszke and Lassalle had been 
working hard at their parts all through the winter 
and spring. Toward the end they received valua- 
ble assistance in their studies from the veteran 
maestro al piano, Herr Saar, a well-known figure 
at Co vent Garden for upward of a quarter of a 
century. This excellent musician a genuine type 
of the old German school was the conductor at 
Strasburg, and familiar with every note of Wag- 
ner's scores. He shared my intense enthusiasm 
on the subject of Jean de Eeszke 's "predestina- 
tion" for the great Wagner roles, and his joy over 
the approaching advent of the new Waliher von 
Stolzing knew no bounds. I was often present 
when he came round to the Continental to do a 
morning's work with the great tenor. His good- 
humored face would be wreathed in smiles as he 
sat down to the piano; and when Jean sang the 
"Probelieder" or the "Preislied," with a charm 
that gave them a new meaning, the old accom- 
panist would gaze heavenward through his spec- 
tacles with a look of ecstasy that was far more 

272 



Musical Life in London 



eloquent than words. He objected to the cuts ; he 
cordially disliked the Italian text; but he was 
aware that both were indispensable, and he had 
the satisfaction of knowing that we all agreed with 
him. 

For, notwithstanding the poetic merit and rhyth- 
mical vigor of Mazzucato's adaptation, Jean de 
Reszke was even now beginning to rebel against 
the open vowels and soft consonants of the Italian 
tongue as a medium for the utterance of the crisp, 
rugged verse, the expressive Teutonic sounds, the 
biting sibilants and gutturals of Wagner's origi- 
nal text. He felt that his declamation was even 
losing force in the very act of giving it birth that 
it had not yet acquired the intense dramatic 
quality which had so appealed to him in the enun- 
ciation of the Bayreuth singers. All this was to 
be acquired in good time, though we little imag- 
ined then that the fulfilment was to be so com- 
plete ; for as yet the Polish tenor had not declared 
to a soul (and probably had not yet conceived the 
idea) that he would ever sing an opera in the Ger- 
man language. And for the moment musical Lon- 
don was content to be radiantly happy over Jean 
de Keszke's first appearance on any stage (July 13, 
1889) as the hero of Wagner's "Die Meister- 
singer." It was a great occasion, and the public 
recognized it as such by crowding the house in 
every part. Earely have I known Covent Garden 
to be pervaded so completely by an atmosphere 
of excitement and curiosity. Only five years pre- 

273 



Thirty Years of 



vious the same opera had been given there in Ger- 
man before a comparatively lukewarm assem- 
blage of Wagner partizans. Now every section of 
the operatic community, united in love and ad- 
miration for a great artist as well as for a great 
composer, was fully represented. That the stick- 
lers for the exact letter grumbled at Mancinelli's 
prodigious cuts may go without saying; but that 
could not be helped, and, indeed, their complaints 
were almost unheard amid the general chorus of 
gratification and pleasure. 

The reader will forgive me if I say that on that 
memorable night I felt, deep in my heart, a sen- 
sation of joyful but modest pride at the thought 
that I had been in some measure instrumental in 
bringing about that felicitous achievement. I shall 
be ever grateful for the words of thanks with 
which Jean de Reszke and Lassalle responded to 
my congratulations when I went on the stage to 
see them after the first act. Both seemed to be in 
the seventh heaven. Edouard, the future Hans 
Sachs, was present; and to the lips of us all there 
came more than once the word "Ems!" The 
Bayreuth experiment had turned out a brilliant 
success. 

Looking back with calm reflection upon the Hans 
Sachs of Lassalle, I must admit that his delineation 
of the poet-cobbler was too refined, too delicate, 
too "gentlemanly" to be altogether correct. Yet 
his noble voice and artistic phrasing imparted an 
added beauty to his music, and the benevolent, 

274 




H 

Q 




Musical Life in London 



kindly spirit of the character has never been more 
delightfully portrayed. The very attributes of re- 
finement and distinction that were out of place in 
Hans Sachs enabled Jean de Keszke to realize in 
ideal fashion the attractive personality of the 
Franconian knight, especially in the half-timid, 
half-angry moments when he rebels against the 
dull bigotry of the Nuremberg master singers. 
The entire embodiment presented features of origi- 
nality that surprised by their freshness no less 
than by their truthful adherence to the Wagnerian 
conception; and, as with his Lohengrin, so with 
his Walther, the vocal rendering of the part con- 
stituted a veritable revelation. The final render- 
ing of the "Preislied" on that hot July night was 
something that never before had been approached, 
and has not since been surpassed. 1 

One of the events of this season was a gala per- 
formance at the Opera in honor of the Shah of 
Persia. Such celebrations subsequently became of 
frequent occurrence, but this was noteworthy as 
the first that had taken place at Covent Garden 
since the visit of the Emperor and Empress of the 
French many years before. The Queen, of course, 

1 The cast, in addition to MM. Jean de Eeszke and Lassalle, 
included Mme. Albani (Eva), Mile. Bauermeister (Magdalena), 
M. Isnardon (Beckmesser) , M. Montariol (David), Signer Abram- 
off (Pogner), and M. Winogradow (Kothner). Signer Manci- 
nelli conducted, and won special praise for the admirable work 
done by his orchestra. The stage manager was M. Lapissida, 
of the Brussels Monnaie, who had already superintended the pro- 
duction of the opera at that house. 

277 



Thirty Years of 



did not attend, being, as usual, represented by the 
Prince of Wales. But more than a quarter of a 
century had now elapsed since the death of the 
Prince Consort, and there was growing evidence 
of Her Majesty's willingness to emerge somewhat 
from her retirement and to indulge more freely in 
the enjoyment of an art to which she was always 
conspicuously devoted. Welcome proof of this had 
been forthcoming in the previous May, when 
Queen Victoria went to the Koyal Albert Hall to 
hear a performance of "The Golden Legend " con- 
ducted by Sir Arthur Sullivan. The idea now re- 
ceived further confirmation from the fact that 
Her Majesty began to take a renewed interest in 
the Opera; and, thanks to the glowing reports of 
various members of the royal family, her curi- 
osity regarding the new Polish singers was roused 
to the highest pitch. This at last found expression 
in a "command" that, together with Mme. Al- 
bani, they should appear before Her Majesty at 
Windsor Castle. 

I cannot do better than quote at length a note 
wherein M. Jean de Reszke gave me a full descrip- 
tion of this, his first visit to Windsor. He says : 

[Translated from the French.] 

MY DEAR FRIEND : 

The concert began with the air from "L'Etoile du 
Nord," which Edouard sang wonderfully. Then Mme. 
Albani and I sang the duet from "Lohengrin," after 
which the Queen expressed a desire to hear me in ' ' Salve 



278 



Musical Life in London 



dimora" from ' 'Faust/' This I gave, and she appeared 
delighted. Next Mme. Albani sang an air by Handel, 
with the accompaniment for flute obbligato I think 
"Sweet Bird" was the title, but you will know better 
than I the particular piece in question; and she sang 
it like a true virtuose. I accompanied Edouard in 
Denza's romance "A un portrait," with which the Queen 
was much pleased; then Edouard and I thundered out 
the unaccompanied duet from "Carmen," arranged by 
ourselves great success! 1 At Her Majesty's request, 
the concert ended with the duet from the "Traviata," 
sung by Mme. Albani and myself. The Queen, smiling 
and full of kindness, approached us and paid us many 
compliments. Among them she told me that I reminded 
her of Mario, only that my voice had more power. She 
refused to believe that I was the elder brother, and this 
discussion, in which Mme. Albani was called upon to 
arbitrate, greatly amused the Queen. Then, after the 
customary courtesies, the Queen retired. I found her 
extremely well, charming in manner, speaking French 
like a Parisian, and a genuine lover of music as one 
could easily see by her eyes and in the movements of the 
head with which she emphasized the chief passages. In 
a word, this musical pilgrimage was anything but the 
solemn function which we at first feared it might be. 
Thanks to the amiability of the sovereign, there was not 
a vestige of fog at Windsor! Mancinelli accompanied. 
A thousand greetings. 

JEAN DE RESZKE. 

1 The ' ' Carmen ' ' duet referred to in the above is a clever ar- 
rangement by the brothers, for two voices in " thirds " and 
"sixths," of the refrain "Dragon d'Alcala, " sung by Don Jose 
just before his entry into tlfe tavern of Lillas Pastia in the 
second act. 

279 



Thirty Years of 



The summer of 1889 did not pass entirely with- 
out operatic rivalry. A feeble effort and an ex- 
piring one was that made at Her Majesty's by 
Mapleson in June, with Bevignani as conductor. 
The company, with two or three exceptions, was 
mediocre in the extreme, and the only debutante 
worth mentioning was the contralto, Signorina 
Bellincioni, younger sister of the soprano, who also, 
later on, created the role of Santuzza in "Caval- 
leria Kusticana." This season lasted exactly 
twenty-five days. A more interesting and more 
fortunate speculation was the series of representa- 
tions of Verdi's "Otello" given at the Lyceum 
Theatre in July, under the direction of Mr. M. 
L. Mayer, with a complete Milanese troupe 
principals, chorus, orchestra, and even mise en 
scene expressly brought over from La Scala, 
where the opera was first produced in February, 
1887. Tamagno and Maurel sustained their origi- 
nal parts, and for the former it was his London 
debut. The performance, exceedingly fine on the 
whole, was admirably directed by Faccio, the fa- 
mous chef-d'orchestre of La Scala, who died a 
year or two later. 

It was in this same season that Eugene Ysaye 
made his first appearance in London, playing the 
Beethoven concerto at the Philharmonic with such 
brilliant success that he was at once reengaged for 
the next concert. Under the auspices of the same 
society, a successful debut was made also by the 
young Russian pianist Loris Sapellnikoff, who 

280 



Musical Life in London 



played Tschaikowsky's pianoforte concerto in 
B flat minor, the composer conducting. Largely 
through the influence of Joseph Barnby, the quick 
development of the modern Flemish school found 
recognition in the production by the Royal Choral 
Society of Peter Benoit's oratorio "Lucifer." 
It created the impression, however, of a more or 
less disconnected series of tone-pictures, original 
in treatment, but lacking in spontaneous inspira- 
tion. 



283 



CHAPTER XIII 

Opera in America and England Progress at Covent Garden- 
Jean de Reszke's Don Jost Harris and the Wagner per- 
forming rights Debut of Paderewski The Critics and the 
Virtuoso A new musical "Lion" Great artist and true 
friend An evening with Paderewski. 

EARLY in the winter of 1889-90 a powerful 
opera troupe was formed by Mr. Henry Ab- 
bey to undertake a tour in the United States, and 
just before the new year it opened at Chicago with 
immense eclat. Among the leading artists were 
Adelina Patti, Emma Albani, Lillian Nordica, and 
Tamagno. Then for the first time did American 
opera-lovers hear the diva as Juliette, Albani as 
Valentino, and Desdemona, Nordica as Aida, and 
Tamagno as Otello. Each in turn achieved suc- 
cess ; but the chief triumph of the tour fell easily 
to Mme. Patti, who appeared always to overflow- 
ing houses, and received from the critics, espe- 
cially in California, their loudest paeans of praise. 
Taken for all in all, this enterprise was notewor- 
thy because it opened the eyes of American mana- 
gers to the possibility of working independently 
of the European impresario. It showed them 
where to look for the lodestones best calculated to 
attract their own public ; and thus it led to the es- 

284 



Musical Life in London 



tablishment of the prevailing system, which, for 
a decade at least, I have described elsewhere by 
saying that "what Covent Garden does this year, 
New York does next." I need scarcely add that 
this aphorism has no application whatever to Ger- 
man opera, since the latter was "running alone" 
in New York while in London it was not out of 
swaddling-clothes. In 1890, however, the two 
branches in both cities were still separate and 
distinct. The time was yet to come when the three 
great schools of opera should be exploited by a 
single company of artists upon one and the same 
stage. 

Gladly would I have written "four" instead of 
"three." But, alas, the development of the young 
English school was again progressing at too slow 
a rate for it to keep pace with its older and more 
powerful sisters. Not that Augustus Harris left a 
stone unturned to direct to a successful issue the 
policy and the task bequeathed him by Carl Rosa. 
He signalized the very first year after his old part- 
ner's death by arranging for the company to re- 
new its Easter visit to Drury Lane. Rosa had 
commissioned Frederic Cowen after his return 
from Australia to write an opera expressly for 
him. 1 The libretto was supplied by Mr. Joseph 
Bennett, who, knowing the composer's fondness 
for Scandinavian color, founded his plot upon an 

1 Mr. Cowen had conducted the whole of the orchestral per- 
formances given in connection with the Melbourne Centennial 
Exhibition of 1888. 

285 



Thirty Years of 



episode in the ancient Icelandic tale of "Viglund 
the Fair." Cowen's "Thorgrim" was duly pro- 
duced at Drury Lane on April 22, some thirteen 
and a half years after Carl Rosa had brought out 
his " Pauline " at the Lyceum, with Zelie de Lus- 
san, Barton McGuckin, and Frank Celli in the 
principal parts. The Prince of Wales, to whom 
the work was dedicated, attended the first perform- 
ance with the Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh; 
and the composer conducted an admirable render- 
ing of his opera. Yet, despite a cordial reception, 
"Thorgrim" failed quite to hit the mark, and 
the effect of its many beauties was lost because 
of a story too unattractive and too undramatic 
to appeal to the popular taste. In the course of 
this season, Gounod's " Romeo et Juliette " was 
given for the first time in English. 

To be quite candid, as every "faithful chroni- 
cler" should be, it is necessary to record that such 
hold as opera in the vernacular had taken upon the 
metropolitan public was now beginning to relax. 
The attention of the main body of opera-goers was 
directed almost exclusively toward Covent Garden. 
And there, during the season approaching, we 
were to witness a demand for opera in French that 
amounted almost to a craze. The 1 1 Romeo ' ' exper- 
iment was bearing fruit with a vengeance. As far 
as the requisite time for preparation would permit, 
no opera composed to a French text was hence- 
forth to be sung in any but the French language. 
Curiously enough, "Faust" and "Les Huguenots" 
were still for a brief spell to be given in their Ital- 

286 



Musical Life in London 



ian dress; but "Le Prophete," "La Favorita," 
1 i Hamlet, "" Carmen/ 7 and even Goring Thomas's 
"Esmeralda" were all to be done in French for 
the first time. That this was a step in the right 
direction there can be no question. It was artistic 
in the abstract, and furthermore it greatly pleased 
the largest array of subscribers known since the 
"palmy days" of Covent Garden. The subscrip- 
tion for the opera season of 1890 amounted in the 
aggregate to nearly forty thousand pounds ($200,- 
000), and this for only ten weeks of five nights each. 
Artists' salaries were rising too; but for all that, 
Augustus Harris was finding that the "Royal 
Italian Opera," conducted on liberal principles, 
was commencing to pay extremely well. 

Of the new French repertoire only two works 
required special study on the part of the Paris 
singers namely, "Carmen" and "Esmeralda." 
Jean de Reszke was pretty forward with the role 
of Captain Phoebus; but Lassalle was equally 
backward with those of Escamillo and Claude 
Frollo, having had little time to devote to the 
study of new operas for London. As a matter of 
fact, he had only created the title part in Saint- 
Saens's "Aseanio" at the Opera on the 21st of 
March, and two days later he wrote me as follows : 

[Translated from the French.] 

PARIS, March 23, 1890. 
MY DEAR FRIEND : 

What a pity you could not come to the premiere of 
' ' Aseanio ! ' ' You would, I am sure, have been delighted 



287 



Thirty Years of 



with this music. It is a very remarkable work, no matter 
what the Parisian press may say of it. I am much afraid 
that it (the press) will deceive itself concerning this 
work, just as it made a mistake about " Carmen" and 
so many other compositions that constitute the glory of 
the French school. Personally, I have had a very, very 
great success, whereof, as you may guess, no one could 
be happier ; but it does not blind me to the point of not 
attributing it primarily to the musical value of Saint- 
Saens's wonderful work. The honor of being the chosen 
interpreter of such a master is great. I am happy and 
proud of it. Jean and Edouard beg me to convey to 
you their best regards. I unite with them in adding my 
most sincere greetings. 

J. LASSALLE. 

The result was that neither "Carmen" nor "Es- 
meralda" appeared in its Gallic .guise until late in 
July. Indeed, "Carmen" was given only for Har- 
ris's "benefit" on the very last night of the season, 
when the demand for seats was so enormous that 
stalls sold for 4 ($20) apiece, and many hun- 
dreds of people were turned away from the doors. 
The only disappointment was Melba's non-ap- 
appearance as Michaela, but this was almost 
forgotten amid the triumphs of Jean de Eeszke 
and Lassalle, whose admirable impersonations 
were well matched by the fascinating Carmen of 
Zelie de Lussan. Being a kind of gala night, Au- 
gustus Harris imagined it would be interesting to 
have each of his three conductors engaged upon 
the one opera. Accordingly Mancinelli directed 

288 



Musical Life in London 



the first act, Bevignani the second, Eandegger the 
third, and Mancinelli again the fourth. The effect 
upon the ensemble of the performance was sim- 
ply disastrous, and, needless to add, the childish 
experiment was never tried again. 

The Don Jose of Jean de Eeszke has been vari- 
ously criticized. I hold the opinion, however, not 
only that it was, and still is, a superb embodiment, 
but that it did a great deal to restore to the char- 
acter the musical and histrionic value which it had 
gradually been losing in inverse ratio to the ever- 
growing prominence of the central figure of the 
opera. For this reason I quote some lines that I 
penned anent M. de Eeszke 's impersonation at the 
time: 

He showed us that it was as easy for one great artist 
to revive the importance and enhance the interest of a 
good role as for twenty mediocrities to drag it down to 
the level of their own talent. It goes without saying 
that the Polish tenor copied nobody's Don Jose in par- 
ticular. He knew the traditions of the character, just 
as he learned those of Sir Walter von Stolzing by visit- 
ing Bayreuth. He read his Merimee and carefully studied 
his libretto; but like an artist of individuality and re- 
source, he also thought the part out for himself. The 
result, curiously enough, was a conception more closely 
resembling Campanini's than any we have seen since. 
It was free from the melodramatic exaggeration into 
which other tenors had fallen. Take, as an instance, the 
last act. M. de Reszke did not make himself up like a 
starved ghost, neither did he rush about like a savage 

289 



Thirty Years of 



animal in a cage. He looked the picture of despair, and 
he made his piteous appeal to Carmen with the tone of 
a man who is yearning for love, not for an excuse to 
commit murder. When at last driven to extremities, he 
did not gloat over his revenge nor chase his victim from 
corner to corner as a cat might chase a mouse. He 
simply stood at the entrance to the bull-ring, and when 
Carmen made her attempt to escape, he seized his dag- 
ger as by a sudden impulse and stabbed her as she was 
endeavoring to pass him. An instant later he was lean- 
ing over her lifeless body in tears, horror-stricken at the 
deed he had committed. This surely was the true read- 
ing of the episode. Nor was it the only scene upon which 
M. Jean de Reszke, with rare artistic insight, contrived 
to throw a new and consistent light. He depicted with 
wonderful subtlety and skill the gradual stages by which 
Don Jose is drawn under Carmen's fascinating influ- 
ence. Fierce and absorbing passion revealed itself in 
his facial expression, his gestures, and, above all, the 
thrilling tones of his voice. Never before has the beauti- 
ful passage where Jose brings forth the flower that Car- 
men gave him and tells her how it cheered his lonely 
prison hours, been invested with such charm of voice and 
such tenderness and warmth of delivery. 

Jean de Reszke did no less to elevate and enrich 
by his transcendent art the part of Phoebus in Gor- 
ing Thomas's * ' Esmeralda. ' ' So did Lassalle 
that of the priest Frollo, and so, in a vocal sense at 
least, did Melba that of the heroine. These artists 
evinced a genuine interest in the opera, for they 
had taken an immense personal liking to the com- 
poser, and openly expressed their admiration for 

290 



Musical Life in London 



the talent and modesty of "ce cher Goringue." 
But in another direction unfortunate influences 
were at work. Notwithstanding its French origin 
and treatment, "Esmeralda" was in all essential 
matters an English opera, and as such the public 
knew and remembered it. Clothed in a foreign 
garb, it did not really appeal to connoisseurs, while 
the subscribers, as usual, gave infinitely more 
thought to the interpreters than to the work. That 
Goring Thomas's charming opera would have 
fared better obtained an abiding-place in the ac- 
tive repertory had it been presented in English by 
the same distinguished artists, is also a matter of 
doubt. Experience has proved that Covent Gar- 
den audiences do not care for opera in the ver- 
nacular, whether the work be of native or Conti- 
nental origin; and it is the same, I believe, with 
the audiences of the Metropolitan Opera House in 
New York. Nor will the prejudice be overcome 
until the leading singers of the English-speak- 
ing countries are perfectly trained in the enun- 
ciation of their native tongue and can coax 
their compatriots into listening with pleasur- 
able appreciation to first-rate native works ren- 
dered in the language "understanded of the 
people." 

In 1890 all sorts of rumors were in the air con- 
cerning the future of Covent Garden Theatre. 
There was a heavy mortgage on the property, and 
the owner, Mr. A. Montague, was so uncertain 
what he would do with it that he would consent 

291 



Thirty Years of 



to let the opera-house only for a few weeks at 
a time. Augustus Harris, who that year added to 
his other trifling labors by accepting the hon- 
orable duties of Sheriff of London, 1 would gladly 
have taken a sub-lease of the theatre for a length- 
ened period, if only for the sake of being able to 
effect the many costly structural alterations and 
decorative improvements of which the place stood 
so badly in need. But Mr. Montague was in too 
vacillating a mood, and he would agree to nothing 
definite. Such was the position of affairs when 
our old friend Signor Lago came forward and 
offered to take Covent Garden for a six weeks' au- 
tumn season of Italian opera at cheap prices, dat- 
ing from October 18. The offer was accepted. 

This autumn enterprise was noteworthy for two 
or three things; chiefly for the revival of Gluck's 
"Orfeo," wherein the sisters Sofia and Giulia 
Ravogli made their debuts, and the contralto, by 
her nobly picturesque assumption of Orfeo, cre- 
ated a very striking and powerful impression. 
Further, Albani and Maurel resumed together the 
parts of Elizabeth and Wolfram which they had 
played in the production of "Tannhauser" at this 
house in 1876. Last, but not least, Lago established 
his claim, under the clauses of the Berne Conven- 
tion, to perform certain operas, such as " Faust " 

1 He was a liveryman (by purchase) of the City of London 
and Prime Warden of the Loriners' Company. He was the first 
theatrical manager upon whom the coveted shrieval dignity had 
ever been bestowed. 

292 




Copyright, 1902, by Davis & Sanford, N. Y. 

PADEREWSKI 



Musical Life in London 



and ' ' Lohengrin, ' ' without payment of fees to other 
parties who declared that they owned the remain- 
ing rights in those books. It was in virtue of the 
"interest" vested therein by prior production at 
Covent Garden that Lago obtained that victory, 
and the result considerably upset the calculations 
of the Carl Eosa Opera Company and Augustus 
Harris, who had paid large sums for surviving 
rights in certain operas that now proved to possess 
only a limited value. Harris, in reply to an inquiry, 
had written me a note to say that, "Except l Par- 
sifal, ' all Wagner rights for this country are ours, 
in all languages. No piece can be done at a concert, 
even, without permission from yours truly, Augus- 
tus Harris." 

But the connection between the two undertakings 
was soon to be terminated. The new sheriff was 
fain to admit that even his Napoleonic grasp was 
not equal to the task of holding and directing the 
strands of such a huge coil of enterprises, to which, 
by the way, he had recently added the lesseeship 
of a theatre at Newcastle. Toward the end of 1890 
he resigned his position as managing director of 
the Carl Eosa Company, and the splendid edifice 
which had taken fifteen years to build was now, 
for the first time, without an actual controlling 
head. Its fortunes, I am sorry to say, quickly be- 
gan to suffer. The concern did not long continue 
to pay a dividend, and in a few years had become, 
what it is now, a mere shadow of its former pros- 
perous self. 

2 95 



Thirty Years of 



The early summer of 1890 was to witness the 
debut of the successor to Liszt and Rubinstein, of 
the greatest of the fin de siecle group of great 
pianists Ignace Jan Paderewski. This event 
created interest at the time among a very limited 
circle. It was anticipated with curiosity only by 
the critics and dilettanti who follow the trend of 
musical events in Paris. For several months we 
had been receiving vivid accounts of a young Po- 
lish pianist, "with a wonderful aureole of golden 
hair," who executed miracles upon the keyboard, 
who composed delicious minuets and played Cho- 
pin to absolute perfection. But London cares 
little, as a rule, for what Paris thinks of new ar- 
tists, and it displayed anything but a burning im- 
patience to hear Leschetizky's latest pupil. This 
fact was sufficiently demonstrated by the meagre 
audience which gathered at St. James 's Hall on the 
9th of May for the first of the four recitals an- 
nounced by the composer of " Paderewski 's Min- 
uet." A more coldly critical assemblage perhaps 
it would have been impossible to find. Not a 
soupQon of magnetic current was in the atmos- 
pherenot even the quickened pulse arising from 
the anticipation of "sensational effects." 

When M. Paderewski appeared upon the plat- 
form there was a mild round of applause accom- 
panied by an undercurrent of whispering and sup- 
pressed murmurs that had evident reference to his 
unwonted picturesqueness of aspect. The deep 
golden tinge of his hair seemed to accentuate the 

296 



Musical Life in London 



intense pallor of his countenance. One could 
plainly see that he was nervous ; but in those deep, 
thoughtful eyes, in those firmly-set lips, in that 
determined chin, one could read also the strong, 
virile qualities of the self-contained, self-reliant 
artist, already accustomed to conquer audiences 
and to create magnetism in the most sterile space. 
Exactly how he played that day I mean, as com- 
pared with the Paderewski whose every mood was 
by and by to become familiar it is rather hard 
for me to say. That he strove to be " sensational ' ' 
I do not believe now, though at the time it was 
difficult to think otherwise. For surely his con- 
trasts were startling in their violence, and the in- 
strument fairly thundered under his execution of 
a forte passage. At times there seemed to be no 
restraint whatever. His magnificent technique 
enabled him to give free rein to his impulse and 
imagination, and laissez aller was then the word. 
If you loved sensationalism in a pianist, here un- 
questionably was a virtuoso capable of providing 
an unlimited quantity of it. 

And such was the prevailing impression in the 
minds of the aforesaid critics and dilettanti when 
they left St. James's Hall that afternoon. The 
former dwelt not upon the tenderness and poetry 
that Paderewski had revealed in his Chopin-play- 
ing, nor upon the romantic touches in his Schu- 
mann. They described as ' ' eccentric ' ' his reading 
of Handel and Mendelssohn, and preferred his in- 
terpretation of Liszt and Rubinstein. They liked 

2 97 



Thirty Years of 



best of all his rendering of his own "Trois 
Humoresques a 1 'antique, ' ' and the inevitable 
"Menuet," which had been enthusiastically en- 
cored. Altogether the press notices were marked 
by coolness and extreme caution. For my own 
part, I confess that I did not at first care to commit 
myself to a definite judgment. Yet I had found 
so much to admire, so much to marvel at, so much 
that was individual and supremely masterful in 
Paderewski's playing that I determined not to 
miss a single recital of the three still to come. 
The second drew a better audience, though nothing 
approaching a crowd ; and this time the new pian- 
ist included Bach, Beethoven, and Schubert in his 
scheme, together with more Chopin and Pade- 
rewski. The "barometer" began to rise. At his 
third recital his fine performances of Beethoven's 
sonata in A flat, Op. 110, and Schumann's "Car- 
nival" carried the mercury from "change" to 
"fair"; but there it remained, stationary for the 
season. In addition to the recitals he also gave an 
orchestral concert, at which he played his own con- 
certo in A minor, Saint- Saens's concerto in C 
minor, and Liszt's "Fantaisie Hongroise," the 
conductor being Mr. Henschel; and if it failed to 
arouse wide-spread interest, this parting shot 
served to hit the mark so truly that I, for one, no 
longer hesitated to acknowledge Paderewski as a 
really great artist. 

The completion of the conquest was deferred, 
however, until the season of 1891. There had been 

298 



Musical Life in London 



opportunities in the meantime for reflection, and 
the public was now beginning to scent a veritable 
musical "lion." I used to receive letters from 
women readers asking all sorts of questions about 
the Polish pianist and begging for particulars that 
in no way concerned them. These of course went 
unanswered; for the English journalist is less 
generous than his American confrere in dispensing 
information about the private lives of artists. 
But the very existence of such curiosity told a 
tale. There would be no more "meagre audi- 
ences" when Paderewski played. As a matter of 
fact, his Chopin recital at St. James 's Hall in July 
drew the largest crowd and the highest receipts 
recorded since the final visit of Eubinstein. He 
also appeared at the Philharmonic, at a Bichter 
concert, and at an orchestral concert of his own, 
when he was heard in the greatest two of all piano- 
forte concertos: the E flat ("Emperor") of Bee- 
thoven and the A minor of Schumann. It was his 
superb rendering of these masterpieces that, in 
England at least, assured the fame of the gifted 
Pole ; and it was this concert that led indirectly to 
my making his acquaintance. 

I had been requested by his manager, Mr. Daniel 
Mayer, to undertake the writing of such brief ana- 
lytical notes as the programme required, and, in- 
stead of following conventional lines or of describ- 
ing these familiar works in detail, I contented my- 
self with a more or less detailed contrast of the 
characteristic features of the two concertos. This 

299 



Thirty Years of 



appeared to have pleased and interested Pade- 
rewski; and when I was introduced to him after 
the concert he said some charming things in tht 
charming manner which is so characteristic of the 
man. We quickly became close friends. I learned 
not only to appreciate the real magnitude of his 
gifts as a creative and executive musician, but also 
to gauge his rare intellectuality and to respect his 
broad-minded views as cultured artist and man of 
the world. During his many visits to London we 
saw a great deal of each other, and more than once 
he testified to his kindly regard for me. 

An instance of this occurred in 1894. It was ar- 
ranged that, toward the end of his English tour, 
M. Paderewski should dine one evening at my flat 
in Whitehall Court to meet a few well-known mu- 
sicians ; other friends were invited to come in after- 
ward. The date May 3 was fixed by the artist 
himself, and the guests at dinner further included 
Sir Arthur Sullivan, Sir Alexander Mackenzie, 
Sir Joseph Barnby, my beloved old master, Manuel 
Garcia, and the veteran 'cellist, Signor Alfredo 
Piatti. I was especially gratified to be the means 
of bringing Paderewski and Sullivan together. 
They were acquainted, I fancy, but had not met 
frequently ; at any rate, the former wrote me : 

Inutile de vous dire que je serai absolument enchante 
de passer une soiree chez vous, avec vous, et de recon- 
trer Sir Sullivan [sic], que j 'admire beaucoup. 

300 



Musical Life in London 



Just before dinner a quaint sort of letter was 
placed in my hands. It was from some one in the 
famous pianist's entourage, reminding me that 
M. Paderewski was very fatigued after his heavy 
work in the provinces, and begging that I would 
under no circumstances ask him to play that even- 
ing. I was half amused, half annoyed by this un- 
expected communication, which, of course, I knew 
better than to regard as inspired by my guest of 
honor himself. It was also entirely superfluous, as 
I always made it a strict rule never to request an 
artist to perform in my house who did not come 
there for that purpose or with that expressed in- 
tention. However, I thought no more about it until 
after dinner, when I took an opportunity to inform 
Paderewski, in a whispered ' ' aside, ' ' of the strange 
warning I had received. I assured him seriously 
that I had not had the slightest idea of asking him 
to play, and that my friends were more than satis- 
fied to have the pleasure of meeting him and enjoy- 
ing his society. He replied : 

"Do you imagine I think otherwise? This is a 
case of 'Save me from my friends!' That I am 
tired is perfectly true. But when I am in the mood 
to play fatigue counts for nothing. And I am in 
that mood to-night. Are you really going to have 
some music?" 

"Yes, Piatti has brought his 'cello, and he is 
going to take part in the Rubinstein sonata in D. " 

"Then I should like to play it with him; and 

301 



Thirty Years of 



more beside, if he will permit me, Piatti and I 
are now old colleagues at the 'Pops,' and we al- 
ways get on splendidly together." 

What could I say? save express my gratitude, 
and apprise my friends of the treat that was in 
store. It was the more welcome because it was vir- 
tually unexpected. An unalloyed delight was the 
performance of that lovely sonata by the " Prince 
of 'Cellists" and the greatest of living pianists. 
Both seemed to revel in the beauties of a work ad- 
mirably designed for the display of their respec- 
tive instruments, and the rendering was in every 
way perfect. After it was over, dear old Piatti, 
who rarely talked much, said to me in his quiet 
way, "I quite enjoyed that. I have played the 
sonata with Rubinstein many times, but it never 
went better than to-night." Later on he played 
again ; and so did Paderewski with Sullivan close 
by his side, watching with fascinated eyes the 
nimble fingers as they glided over the keys. That 
evening the illustrious pianist was inspired. Fa- 
tigue was forgotten; indeed, he seemed much 
fresher than on the preceding night, when he in- 
troduced his fine "Polish Fantasia" at the Phil- 
harmonic. 1 He went on and on from one piece to 
another, with characteristic forgetfulness of self, 
and it was well on to dawn before we parted. 

The debut of Leonard Berwick in 1890 is worthy 

1 This work was composed for and first performed by M. Pade- 
rewski at the Norwich Festival of 1893. 

302 



5 





Musical Life in London 



of mention, inasmuch as, like Fanny Davies, he 
embodies in a remarkable degree the unique quali- 
ties of the romantic school whereof their teacher, 
Mme. Clara Schumann, was admittedly the most 
spontaneous and finished exponent. The suc- 
cess of these two native artists was destined to 
afford great encouragement to rising students both 
in England and on the Continent. It also helped 
to create among the general mass of amateurs a 
taste for pianoforte-playing of a more warm- 
blooded type than had hitherto satisfied them. 
The days of Arabella Goddard and her feux-d' ar- 
tifice had now passed forever ; and so, very nearly, 
had those of the coldly correct and scholastic Sir 
Charles Halle. Let it be said, nevertheless, that 
the late musical knight accomplished much useful 
work in the oral education of the youthful and 
impressionable mothers of future generations of 
amateurs. He performed a still higher function, 
moreover, by diffusing a love of high-class orches- 
tral music through the medium of his famous 
Manchester band (now conducted by Hans 
Kichter), which enjoyed a tremendous vogue in 
the north of England, though it consistently failed 
to make money when brought to the metropolis, 
as it frequently was at that time. At the Popular 
Concerts Sir Charles was still a favorite, and I 
note that in December, 1890, he was taking part 
in a " Beethoven programme " with Lady Halle 
(nee Neruda), Louis Eies, Ludwig Straus, Alfred 

305 



Musical Life in London 



Gibson, and Piatti for coadjutors. The old com- 
bination, even as late as that, was still intact. In 
the same month, by the way, Jean Gerardy made 
his first appearance in London, a marvelous 'cello 
prodigy of twelve, and destined to ripen into an 
artist of the first rank. 



306 



CHAPTER XIV 

Adelina Pattiat home Life at Craig-y-nos Castle Opening of 
the Patti Theatre: inaugural operatic performance Prepar- 
ing "wordless" plays The diva as La Tosca Her love of 
Wagner Bayreuth by proxy and in reality "The Queen of 
Song": an appreciation How she reappeared at Covent 
Garden A strange presentiment. 

IN August, 1891, 1 paid my first visit to Craig-y- 
nos Castle, the lovely Welsh home of Mme. 
Adelina Patti. I had known the distinguished 
cantatrice personally some half-dozen years; but 
somehow I had always been content to worship 
from afar one who filled, by right of unrivaled 
gifts, the highest place in the temple of vocal art. 
The greatest vocalist of her sex that the world had 
brought forth since the middle of the nineteenth 
century; the brilliant " Queen of Song," honored 
by monarchs and princes, sought by the creme of 
aristocracy and wealth, quoted by poets and nov- 
elists, feted and applauded alike in the Eastern 
and Western hemispheres small wonder if this 
strangly unique being had inspired me from youth 
upward with feelings of the deepest veneration and 
amazement. Nor were those feelings to undergo 
the slightest tinge of modification during the 
period of ripening friendship and often close asso- 

307 



Thirty Years of 



elation that was now to follow. There 's a "di- 
vinity doth hedge " queens as well as kings; and 
Patti is one of those in whom familiarity may 
exercise a charm, but can never ' ' breed contempt. ' ' 
The immediate occasion of my first journey 
to Craig-y-nos was the inauguration of the elegant 
little theatre which Mme. Patti-Nicolini had re- 
cently built in the new wing of her castle. It had 
been settled in the spring that I was to be present. 
In July came the following note : 

CRAIG-Y-NOS CASTLE, YSTRADGYNLAIS, 

July 13, 1891. 
DEAR MR. KLEIN : 

I promised to send you a line with itinerary for jour- 
ney from London to Craig-y-nos Castle, 1 which I enclose, 
and trust you will be good enough to let me know on 
which day we are to expect you, so as to send the car- 
riage to the station to meet you. With our united very 
best regards, 

Most sincerely yours, 

ADELINA PATTI-NICOLINI. 

P.S. The opening of our theatre takes place on the 
12th of August. 

I went down on the 8th. It was so much more 
pleasant to be there for three or four days before 

x lt was then an eight hours' affair, involving two changes of 
railway and a journey from one station to another at Neath, 
followed by a drive to the castle from the station in Swansea 
Valley by the road which Mme. Patti expressly had cut along the 
mountain-side. The present journey by the Brecon route is much 
shorter. 



308 



Musical Life in London 



the function. One could study the castle and its 
environs, and become accustomed to the ways of 
the household. My welcome was of the utmost cor- 
diality. Mme. Patti's fame as a hostess had pre- 
ceded and did not belie her; she kept an eye open 
for the comfort of each of her guests. The house 
party was a numerous one, including as it did the 
Spanish Ambassador, Sir Edward Lawson, Sir 
Augustus and Lady Harris, 1 poor William Terriss, 
the actor (asked to deliver the opening address in 
place of Sir Henry Irving, who could not come), 
the Eissler Sisters, Signor and Mme. Arditi, An- 
toinette Sterling, Giulia Valda, Durward Lely, 
Tito Mattei, Wilhelm Ganz, Franco Novara, and 
others. 

The place has been described so often that I take 
it almost for granted the reader knows something 
of Craig-y-nos and its beauties. Enough that the 
scene is a bit of fairyland, a veritable ' ' oasis in the 
desert/' as some guide-books have called it, amid 
the long tracts of uninteresting country that con- 
stitute the watershed of the Swansea Valley. The 
castle itself is fitted up with every contrivance that 
modern luxury can afford. The winter garden, 
with its wonderful electric fountain, is of huge 
dimensions, and in summer the conservatory makes 
the most picturesque dining-room I have ever seen. 
In the French billiard-room stands the famous 

lf rhe worthy sheriff had just received the honor of knight- 
hood in connection with the visit of Kaiser Wilhelm II to the 
City of London. 

309 



Thirty Years of 



orchestrion, probably the finest instrument of its 
kind ever built. It possesses a rich, mellow organ 
tone, and executes the most complex compositions 
with extraordinary clearness. I may say, without 
exaggeration, that it was by the aid of her splendid 
orchestrion that Mme. Patti first began to compre- 
hend the intricacies of Wagner's more advanced 
works. She now knows them by heart and enjoys 
them. 

But, after all, the gem of the castle, apart from 
its mistress, is the theatre. It has been called "a 
Bayreuth theatre en miniature" and justly. No 
side boxes or seats; a single gallery at the back; 
stalls sloping down to the orchestra so that the mu- 
sicians are nearly out of sight ; and a clever system 
of stage lighting by electricity. The pure Renais- 
sance architecture is set off to great advantage by 
a singularly delicate scheme of color, pale blue, 
cream, and gold, to which the deep sapphire of 
the curtains supplies a most effective contrast. 
The walls and proscenium are tastefully decorated, 
and between graceful columns are inscribed in pan- 
els the names of the great composers. The scenery 
is painted by the best theatrical artists ; while the 
act-drop, representing Semimmide driving her 
war-chariot, is a spirited achievement, beside fur- 
nishing an excellent portrait of the Queen of the 
Castle. Also to be noted is the novel mechanism 
for raising the floor of the auditorium to the level 
of the stage, whereby the sdlle is converted into a 
handsome ball-room. It is here, every Christmas 

310 



Musical Life in London 



Eve, that Mme. Patti bestows her annual gifts 
upon the servants and tenantry of her estate. 

With her professional career nearing its end, 
what, it may be asked, can have been the object of 
this great artist in enriching her home with such 
a structure as this? To practise and perform 
operas? Certainly not. True it is that on the 
memorable opening night now referred to the still 
youthful Patti, a picture of grace ablaze with 
diamonds, sang the first act of "La Traviata," 
followed by the garden scene from "Faust," with 
her husband, M. Nicolini, in his old part. Again, 
three days later, a performance was given of the 
balcony scene from " Romeo " and the third act 
of Flotow's "Martha"; this, like the first, being 
attended by a crowded audience of privileged 
friends and neighbors. But these were the bap- 
tismal representations. They consecrated the the- 
atre, as it were, without precisely foreshadowing 
the main purpose of its existence. 

The answer to this question was supplied by 
Mme. Patti herself early during that very sojourn 
at Craig-y-nos Castle : "I love the stage. I love to 
act and to portray every species, every shade of 
human emotion. Only I want freedom more free- 
dom than opera, with its restricted movements and 
its wear and tear on the voice, can possibly allow 
the actress. I care not whether it be comedy or 
tragedy, so long as I feel that I can devote my 
whole energy, my whole being, to realizing the 
character that I have to delineate. Even words 



Thirty Years of 



trouble me; they take time to commit to memory, 
and their utterance fatigues a singer too much. 
Yet I want to act, to feel myself upon the boards, 
playing to amuse myself and a few chosen friends 
on each side of the footlights. What does there 
remain for me to do? What but to enact scenes 
and plays in ' pantomime ' ; to utilize the ancient art 
of the Italian mime and express every sentiment by 
means of gesture, action, and facial expression. I 
must have music, of course; I cannot do entirely 
without my own art and all its wealth of suggestive 
force. Give me only a dramatic idea, with music 
that aids in depicting it, and I will play you any 
part you choose, from one of Sarah Bernhardt's 
down to Fatima in "Bluebeard." 

I understood. There was something more in this 
than mere whim or caprice. That Mme. Patti had 
already been demonstrating her marvelous talent 
for " dramatic pantomime " upon the stage of her 
new theatre I knew quite well. In a word, her his- 
trionic powers, which had so conspicuously devel- 
oped during the later years of her career, were now 
asserting their strength to a degree which in this 
case demanded active exercise. Knowing that I 
was an "old hand" at amateur stage work, she 
asked me if I would like to assist in one of the en- 
tertainments. I inquired which particular kind 
the "Sarah Bernhardt" or the "Bluebeard"? 

"Both," she replied, laughing. "We already 
have a capital arrangement of * Bluebeard.' We 
can do that to-morrow or next day. Then if you 

3*4 



Musical Life in London 



like to write out a scenario of one of Bernhardt's 
plays, we will put it in hand and give it later in 
the month. ' ' 

I suggested "La Tosca" little dreaming that 
Puccini was then thinking of composing an opera 
upon Sardou's play. My hostess agreed. The 
casts were arranged and forthwith we set to work. 
In ' ' Bluebeard ' ' I played the lover. In " La Tosca ' ' 
young Richard Nicolini, a professional actor, 
enacted the painter Paul Cavaradossi, and I took 
the part of Scarpia. The rehearsals were a delight. 
They frequently took place in the afternoon, and 
Mme. Patti entered into them as seriously as 
though they were for a public performance; in- 
teresting herself in every little detail and suggest- 
ing countless bits of effective " business. " It was 
in course of these rehearsals that I began to realize 
what a consummate mistress she was of the art of 
the stage. 1 A bare idea, a mere hint, would suffice ; 
whether comedy or tragedy was the theme, she 
would work upon it and elaborate it with wonder- 
ful skill. Once while we were rehearsing "La 
Tosca, ' ' Sir Augustus Harris quietly slipped in and 
took a seat in the dark auditorium. He watched 
the proceedings with the amusement of a master of 
the game enjoying a holiday. Mme. Patti soon per- 
ceived him, and she called out : 

*In matters concerning scenery, costumes, and lighting it was 
the same, though herein Mme. Patti relied greatly upon the able 
assistance of Frank Eigo (the second regisseur of Covent Garden 
and the Metropolitan Opera House), who used regularly to spend 
his summer holiday at Craig-y-nos. 



Thirty Years of 



"Gus, what are you doing there? Why don't 
you come on the stage and help us I ' ' 

"My dear Adelina," answered Sir Augustus, 
* ' if this were an opera or a play I would with plea- 
sure. But it is neither, and whatever it may be, 
there is no need of my help as long as you are 
there. I am just beginning to realize that if you 
had not been the world's greatest singer you could 
have been one of its best actresses. " He meant it 
and it was true. 

The "Tosca" performance did not come off until 
August 29, after the impresario had left the castle. 
At the last moment we found the bill too long, so 
we determined to omit dramatic action and give it 
as a series of tableaux vivants, in which form it 
vastly pleased a large audience of friends from 
"The Valley." They missed, however, the thrill- 
ing effect of Mme. Patti's gliding, serpentine 
movements in the supper scene where she stabs 
Scarpia; and they could not guess that the dead 
Minister of Police, in the person of myself, was 
positively shuddering as he lay prone between the 
two lighted candles. I had been told to keep my 
eyes open and stare, but that tragic look upon the 
countenance of La Tosca as she placed the crucifix 
upon my breast was so terrible that if I had not 
closed them I should have had to jump up before 
the curtain fell. Throughout, Patti's attitudes 
were a wonderful study, and I feel sure Sarah 
Bernhardt and Ternina would have given much to 
have seen her remarkable impersonation. 

316 



Musical Life in London 



A week prior to this event Mme. Patti had been 
honored by a visit from the late Prince Henry of 
Battenberg, who was staying at Clyne Castle, and 
who came out to lunch accompanied by Count 
Gleichen, Lord Eoyston (now the Earl of Hard- 
wicke), and other friends. The Queen's son-in- 
law witnessed a repetition of the garden scene from 
" Faust, 77 and altogether spent a most agreeable 
afternoon. A few days later we all went over to 
Swansea to take part in the annual concert given 
by Mme. Patti in aid of the local charities. The 
journey each way assumed the character of a tri- 
umphal progress, the entire route from the station 
to the concert-hall being lined by dense crowds. It 
was touching to witness the eagerness of the hum- 
ble folk men, women, and children to catch a 
glimpse of the illustrious vocalist, who once every 
year came from her mountain home to aid the in- 
stitution that succored their needy and suffering. 
The concert itself was memorable because on this 
occasion, for the first time in her life, the famous 
songstress delivered as an encore the soul-stirring 
strains of the Welsh national air, "Land of my 
Fathers ' ' ; and when, at her request, her enthusias- 
tic auditors joined in the chorus, the effect was 
simply electrifying. 

Altogether that delightful month at Craig-y- 
nos Castle was packed with excitement and bustle. 
It was my privilege during the next few years to 
spend there many weeks visits not less enjoyable, 
but less eventful, and infinitely more restful. In 



Thirty Years of 



the evenings we would sit and listen to the orches- 
trion, and when it had exhausted its round of Wag- 
ner excerpts I would occasionally supplement the 
selection upon the piano with fragments from the 
' l Meistersinger, ' ' " Tristan, " and the "Nibelun- 
gen." It was extraordinary to see the pleasure 
Mme. Patti took in this music. One year August 
Wilhelmj was there, and to please her he played 
his own transcription of the "Preislied" upon 
Nicolini's fine ' ' Guarnerius, ' ' Clara Eissler exe- 
cuting the accompaniment upon the harp. To 
reward him Patti sang Gounod's "Ave Maria" to 
his violin obbligato, Clara Eissler again playing 
the harp part, while I took the harmonium. Never 
did the familiar piece go better. But the real re- 
ward came later when some one brought a copy of 
Wagner's "Traume" to the castle, and the diva, 
for the first time in her career, wedded her golden 
tones to one of Wagner's long-drawn melodies. 
By her request we worked at it together, but her 
German accent and phrasing were faultless, and, 
beyond marking the breathing-places, I had vir- 
tually nothing to suggest. 

In the following season she sang "Traume" at 
one of the concerts at the Albert Hall, and so rap- 
turously was this applauded that we subsequently 
took up the study of Elizabeth's Prayer ("Tann- 
hauser"). This suited her to perfection, and she 
rendered it with a depth of fervid expression and 
a wealth of glorious tone that have never been 
equaled. Further than this, however, Mme. Patti 



Musical Life in London 



has not yet consented to pursue her active alliance 
with the music of Wagner. She loves to listen to 
it, but hesitates to impose upon her delicate organ 
the strain of singing it in public. During our Wag- 
ner chats she would often ask me about Bayreuth, 
and I begged her to seize the first opportunity of 
attending the festival. She did not do so, how- 
ever, until after her marriage with Baron Ceder- 
strom, who is extremely fond of traveling, and, 
beside taking his wife to Sweden every summer, 
introduces her to many interesting European re- 
sorts. The following letter tells its own tale: 

FAHRENS VILLA, NEAR SALTSJOBADEN, STOCKHOLM, 

August 5, 1901. 
DEAR MR. KLEIN: 

We have just arrived at this lovely place after spend- 
ing a very pleasant time in Switzerland and at Bayreuth, 
and I must send you first these few lines to tell yon how 
immensely I was impressed by the Bayreuth perform- 
ances. I never could have imagined anything so perfect 
as the mise en scene, and I thought the "Ring" simply 
divine. There are no words to express it; it is all so 
wonderful and beautiful. I thought "Parsifal" was 
glorious, especially the last act, and I am indeed glad to 
have heard all these marvelous works. 

After a three weeks' stay at Schinznach we went to 
Lucerne, where we had a most delightful time, taking 
long excursions every day. Can you imagine me going 
up the Rigi, Pilatus, the Biirgenstock, and similar 
places ? I was well rewarded for my courage in mounting 
those perpendicular heights, for the view from the top 
was simply beyond description. . . . 



Thirty Years of 



We expect to remain here until the beginning of Sep- 
tember, when we shall return to England, as rny concert 
tour commences the first week in October. The Baron 
joins me in sending you kindest remembrances. 
Yours very sincerely, 

ADELINA PATTI- CEDERSTROM. 

The days at Craig-y-nos were always full of in- 
terest and variety. It was an inestimable privi- 
lege to enjoy the daily society and conversation of 
Adelina Patti; to hear her ever and anon burst 
into song ; to catch the ring of her sunshiny laugh ; 
to come under the spell of a personal charm such 
as few women possess. She converses with equal 
facility in English, French, Italian, and Spanish, 
speaks German and Russian well, and by this time, 
I dare say, can carry on a fluent colloquy in Swe- 
dish. Her memory is extraordinary. She tells a 
hundred stories of her early life in America, dat- 
ing from the age of seven, when she made her first 
appearance in public. 1 She tells how they used 
to stand her upon the table to sing; how she first 

1 The portrait of Adelina Patti at the age of nine forming the 
frontispiece of this book is taken from a daguerreotype in her 
possession, which she showed me at Craig-y-nos Castle a few years 
ago. The complete picture shows three little girls seated together 
at a table Adelina in the centre and a playmate on each side. 
I was so much struck by the intelligence of the expression and the 
extraordinary maturity of the features generally so like, even 
at that age, to the familiar face of later years that I begged 
Mme. Patti to allow me to have a photographic enlargement made 
of the central figure. She kindly consented, and three copies 
were executed. Of these she herself owns one, the widow of Sir 
Augustus Harris has another, and I possess the third. 

320 



Musical Life in London 



rendered "Casta Diva " by ear without a single 
mistake ; and how, when her eldest sister, Amalia, 
was striving hard to master the shake, the tiny 
Adelina stopped her and asked, "Why don't you 
do it like this f ' ' therewith executing a natural and 
absolutely irreproachable trill. 

Patti tells you that she never studied the art of 
producing or emitting the voice. Nature, alone 
and unaided, accomplished that marvel. To keep 
the organ in perfect condition, she has but to run 
over the scales ten minutes every morning. Her 
vocalization is one of those miracles that cannot 
be explained. Its wondrous certainty and finish 
are assuredly not arrived at without some labor; 
but in the end the miracle seems to have accom- 
plished itself. Her "ear" is phenomenal. She 
never forgets a tune, and will instantly name the 
opera or composition in which it occurs. Another 
mystery is the perennial freshness of her voice, 
which, after half a century of constant use, retains 
well-nigh unimpaired the delicious sweetness and 
bell-like timbre of early womanhood. No other 
such example of perfect preservation stands on 
record in the annals of the lyric art. To analyze 
its secret one can only say, here surely is a singer 
of marvelous constitution, heaven-gifted with a 
faultless method, who has sedulously nursed her 
physical resources, and has never, under any cir- 
cumstances, imposed the smallest undue strain 
upon the exquisitely proportioned mechanism of 
her vocal organs. 

321 



Thirty Years of 



And the triumphs of this incomparable artist 
have not " spoiled " her. The homage of kings, 
the adulation of friends, the applause of multi- 
tudes, have not robbed her of that unaffected sim- 
plicity, that freedom from ostentation, that yearn- 
ing for home life and domestic tranquillity, which 
are among her most characteristic attributes. As 
evidence of this fact, I quote a portion of a letter 
which Mme. Patti wrote me from Nice in the spring 
of 1895. It was obviously not "intended for pub- 
lication," but herein lies its chief value as a com- 
munication emanating from the friend rather than 
the artist: 

When I gave my extra performance of the "Barbiere" 
my triumph was, if possible, even greater than usual, 
but on each occasion the success has been so enormous 
that it would be difficult to say which performance ex- 
cited the greatest enthusiasm, or when I received the 
biggest ovation. It has, indeed, become a succession of 
triumphs the whole time. Do you not feel proud of your 
little friend, who was fifty-two last month, and has been 
singing uninterruptedly every year from the age of 
seven! I am really beginning to believe what they all 
tell me that I am a wonderful little woman! 

It is no exaggeration to say that every one, without 
exception, has been running after me, and loading me 
with invitations in fact, to such a degree that I must 
honestly confess that I am getting decidedly tired of 
all the parties and gaieties we have been going through 
during the past few weeks. It has been an incessant 
lunching out, dining out, and receiving visitors from 
morning till night. I shall be very happy to see my 
dear Castle again and have a little peace and quietness. 

322 



Musical Life in London 



It was just prior to this visit to the south of 
France that negotiations, in which I acted as in- 
termediary, were concluded between Mme. Patti 
and Sir Augustus Harris for the diva's reappear- 
ance in opera at Co vent Garden during the season 
of 1895. I had long devoutly wished for this con- 
summation; but there were many obstacles to be 
removed, not the smallest of these being concerned 
with the Birmingham managers of the " Patti 
Concerts " throughout the United Kingdom, who 
were naturally afraid lest her return to opera 
should interfere with the financial success of the 
customary concerts at the Albert Hall. Ultimately 
these fears were allayed, and Mme. Patti con- 
fided to me that she would not be unwilling to 
consider an offer on certain terms from her 
old friend "Gus." I immediately set about 
arranging for an interview between them in 
London. This was not altogether an easy mat- 
ter. The great prima donna was to spend only 
one evening in town on her way to the Riviera, 
and the busy impresario, with whom minutes 
reckoned as hours, was not readily to be moved 
on an uncertain mission, as he deemed it 
from one quarter of London to another. But, 
eventually, I persuaded him that Mme. Patti was 
really in earnest, and he consented to accompany 
me to Paddington Station to meet the express from 
South Wales. 

It was a bleak January evening, and of course 
the train was late. This was the more unlucky 
because it happened that Tennyson's "King Ar- 

323 



Thirty Years of 



thur" was to be produced at the Lyceum that night, 
and we were both anxious to be there at the rise 
of the curtain; and, moreover, I had to write a 
notice of Sullivan's incidental music to the new 
play. We were already in evening dress, and as 
Harris was suffering from a cold I took care not 
to let him stand upon the draughty platform. We 
waited, therefore, by a warm fire at the station 
hotel and discussed "current events. My compan- 
ion was not in good spirits, while the fact that he 
was not in a sanguine mood was palpable from his 
frequent remark, " Klein, I can't believe Patti 
means to sing at Covent Garden this season. " Sol 
felt heartily glad when the train was signaled and 
the youthful little lady, vivacious as ever in bearing, 
but silent under a mountain of wraps wound round 
to protect her from the biting air, stepped buoy- 
antly out of her saloon carriage and took Har- 
ris's arm to walk into the hotel. Not a word was 
spoken until we got to the private sitting-room. 
Then, greetings over, Mme. Patti, with an arch 
smile, asked Sir Augustus if he would like a little 
quiet conversation with her. He bowed graciously. 
The rest of us discreetly retired. Ten minutes 
later he came out of the room beaming with plea- 
sure. "Make haste and say good-by. Adelina 
would like us to stay and dine, but we must n't; we 
must get a ' snack' somewhere and then hurry to 
the Lyceum." In the hansom he added: "It 's all 
right. She sings at six performances, beginning 
the second week in June!" And we both felt as 
happy as school-boys. 



Musical Life in London 



In the late summer I was at Craig-y-nos once 
more. Work was all over for the season, and the 
indefatigable mistress of the castle, satiated with 
triumphs surpassing any that she had ever previ- 
ously earned at Covent Garden, was only thinking 
how she could best amuse her guests and herself 
upon the stage of her beloved theatre. It was de- 
cided to do a new * ' play without words. ' ' Several 
subjects were proposed, but the choice eventually 
fell upon Mrs. Henry Wood's "East Lynne," 
which, as every one knows, was dramatized many 
years ago and makes a most effective play. The 
scenario was soon prepared and rehearsals started. 
There was ample talent available for the rather 
lengthy cast. Mme. Patti of course played Lady 
Isabel (afterward Mme. Vine) ; that talented ama- 
teur actor C. P. Colnaghi (since deceased) was the 
Archibald Carlyle; another well-known amateur, 
Augustus Spalding, played Captain Levison; and 
I undertook the part of Richard Hare. Music for 
the melodrame was expressly composed (at light- 
ning speed) by our hostess's distant relative Andre 
Pollonnais, the clever French musician who after- 
ward wrote for her the pantomime play i ' Mirka, ' ' 
in which she appeared at Nice for the benefit of the 
local charities. M. Pollonnais also set to music the 
lines of a lullaby which I had written specially for 
Mme. Patti to sing in the scene where the supposed 
governess watches tenderly over her dying child 
in the nursery at East Lynne. This same lullaby 
she afterward sang in public in London and in 
other places. 

327 



Thirty Years of 



The performance of the wordless "East Lynne" 
on August 17 was perhaps the most complete ar- 
tistic achievement in this direction accomplished 
at Craig-y-nos Castle. Certainly it yielded the 
finest piece of acting on Mme. Patti 's part that I 
have known her to give at her own theatre. It 
was also notable for a curious incident. Readers 
familiar with the novel or play will remember that 
when Mme. Vine revisits her former home she is 
dressed in widow ? s i t weeds. ' ' Such a costume was 
worn by Mme. Patti, and very charming she looked 
in it. One person, however, objected strongly to 
her having donned a crape dress. That person was 
M. Nicolini. After the curtain had fallen he ex- 
pressed himself on the subject in no measured 
terms, declaring that such attire "portait mal- 
heur," and that he did not like to see his wife in 
a costume which she might one day be compelled 
of necessity to wear. I pointed out to him that 
he might make the same complaint about the pei- 
gnoir worn by Violetta when dying, or the prison 
garb of Marguerite in the last act of ' ' Faust. ' ' But 
he refused to see it, and remarked, "Elles n'etaient 
jamais veuves, cettes f emmes-la ! ' ' Which was per- 
fectly true; and, having regard to subsequent 
events, his objection would appear to have been not 
altogether unjustifiable. 

It was in June of the succeeding year that Mme. 
Patti honored me by being the centre of attraction 
at a dinner-party which I gave at Whitehall Court, 
followed by a large reception whereat some three 

328 



Musical Life in London 



hundred guests, well known in the musical, theat- 
rical, and literary worlds, were bidden to meet the 
diva. The peculiarity of this function was that 
it collected a good many celebrities who, for various 
reasons, are seldom brought together. For this, 
no doubt, good luck was largely responsible. One 
may know and invite many famous folk to dine 
or sup during the London season ; but it will rarely 
happen that ninety-five per cent, are disengaged 
and willing to come. In this instance I did not re- 
ceive more than twenty refusals, all told. Thus 
it fell that when I took Mme. Patti in to dinner 
she found on her right her old friend Jean de 
Keszke, whom she had not met since the glorious 
' ' Romeo" time in Paris, eight years before. 
Edouard was, of course, there, facing his old con- 
frere Nicolini, who chatted about his pet Cremona 
violins with the perennial Alfredo Piatti. Among 
others present were my father's old friend and pu- 
pil, Lord Suffield, and Lady Suffield (now lord and 
lady in waiting to King Edward and Queen 
Alexandra), Sir Edward and Lady Lawson, Sir 
Augustus and Lady Harris, and Miss Zelie de Lus- 
san. Charles (now Sir Charles) Wyndham and 
Miss Mary Moore also came to dinner or perhaps 
it was later in the evening; and with them the 
young American actress Miss Fay Davis, not 
then known on the stage, who recited some pieces 
with infinite piquancy and grace. Altogether it 
was an interesting gathering. 

The feature of the musicale, however, was a per- 

329 



Thirty Years of 



formance of Schumann's pianoforte quartet (Op. 
47) by four distinguished artists: Fanny Davies, 
Sarasate, Hollander, and Piatti a combination 
rare even at the "Pops," and, above all, to be 
appreciated for the honor conferred by the great 
Spanish violinist, who seldom took part in a cham- 
ber work beyond the "Kreutzer" or some other 
duet-sonata. So anxious was he for the quartet 
to go well that he insisted upon a rehearsal, and 
from Paris fixed the date himself. Here is his 
note: 

PARIS, 23 5-'96. 

C'est entendu, cher ami, je partirai le 3 juin. Ar- 
rangez la repetition pour le 4 dans Fapres-midi. 1 

Votre, 

PABLO SARASATE. 

What was more, he declined the invitation to 
dine in order that he might* be able to eat his 
early meal at the Bristol, as was usual on evenings 
when he had to play. It is hardly necessary to 
add that the performance of the quartet was su- 
perlatively fine. From first to last it went with 
magnificent spirit; and it was listened to with 
keen enjoyment by an assemblage whose interest 
seemed evenly divided as to the music, the exe- 
cutants, and the foremost group of auditors, headed 
by the peerless "guest of the evening." 

To-day Craig-y-nos Castle is the scene of fewer 

1 Translation : It is agreed, dear friend, I shall leave on June 3. 
Arrange the rehearsal for the 4th, in the afternoon. 

' 33 



Musical Life in London 

entertainments upon a large scale. Still, the Baron- 
ess Cederstrom is as dearly attached as ever to her 
mountain home, and, when she is not traveling 
abroad or professionally, she spends practically her 
whole time there. She sings at twenty or twenty- 
five concerts every year (three or four in London, 
the rest in the provinces), and is received every- 
where with the old-time ecstasy and enthusiasm. 
Nor can one feel astonished at the vast assemblages 
which gather at these familiar functions, since Ade- 
lina Patti yet retains her title, "The Queen of 
Song," by virtue of tones still pure, rich, vibrant, 
and exquisitely musical; by the magic of an art 
which no other singer of her day has exemplified 
with the same wondrous measure of beauty and 
perfection. This extraordinary survival of power 
and popularity makes it difficult to foretell even 
approximately when the great prima donna will 
bring her unexampled career to a close. She has 
now agreed to undertake a farewell tour in the 
United States ; but it is not her intention to appear 
there in opera. Thus the American public will not 
have an opportunity to realize the full extent of 
that amazing development of her dramatic genius 
to which I have more especially made reference. 
But Patti is always Patti; and whatever the con- 
ditions, her final coming will be the occasion of a 
rapturous welcome from the citizens of the country 
in which she was reared. 



331 



CHAPTER XV 

A meteoric opera scheme Sullivan's "Ivanhoe" How com- 
posed: how "run to death" Debut of Eugene Oudin David 
Bispham appears in " La Basoche" Oudin and Tschaikowsky : 
a singular coincidence The Russian master's journey to Cam- 
bridgeFirst and last meetings "Cavalleria Rusticana" at 
London and Windsor Jean de Reszke's American de"but: 
his impressions. 

THE early months of 1891 witnessed a very 
remarkable operatic experiment. New forces 
were at the back of it, and it was destined to mark 
the climax of the modern development of Eng- 
lish opera. Had the scheme succeeded in its in- 
tegrity, the operatic history of the next dozen 
years would have had to be rewritten; as it was, 
an individual artistic triumph was hampered by 
a Quixotic managerial policy, and the ambitious 
enterprise resulted in a regrettable failure. 

The late Richard D'Oyly Carte was an excel- 
lent man in his own sphere of action at the Savoy 
Theatre. He thoroughly understood the business 
of mounting the unique comic operas of Gilbert 
and Sullivan, and of sending them round the 
globe in the hands of well-trained companies. But 
about the organization and management of serious 
opera he knew absolutely nothing. Shade of 

332 




I 




Musical Life in London 



Carl Rosa! Imagine the fatuity of building a 
large and costly theatre on Shaftesbury Avenue, 1 
bestowing upon it the high-sounding title of 
the " Royal English Opera, " engaging a double 
company, and opening it with a repertory of one 
work! Never was the initial error of placing the 
whole of the golden eggs in a single basket more 
surely followed by the destruction of the goose 
that laid them! Great was the faith of D'Oyly 
Carte in Arthur Sullivan. But not even the ge- 
nius of that fine musician, as exemplified in his 
first grand opera, "Ivanhoe," was capable of 
withstanding so rude a test. Like one of the 
thoroughbred horses he loved so well, "Ivanhoe" 
ran a great race, achieved a "best on record,'' and 
then collapsed from sheer exhaustion. It has 
never raced since. 

Sullivan wrote "Ivanhoe," so to speak, with 
his life-blood. He slaved at it steadily from May 
till December, and put into it only of his best. 
For weeks before he finished it he was inacces- 
sible; the Christmas of 1890 was no holiday for 
him. The rehearsals had begun long before the 
orchestration was ready, and the opera was to 
be produced on January 31, 1891, at the latest. 
By the first week in the new year the score was 
completed. Then Sir Arthur told me I might come 
to Queen's Mansions to hear some of the music. 
To my great delight, he played several of the 

J It has for the past eleven years been the popular place of 
amusement known as the Palace Theatre of Varieties. 

335 



Thirty Years of 



numbers for me. I found them picturesque, dra- 
matic, original, and stamped throughout with the 
cachet which the world understands by the word 
* l Sullivanesque. ' ' I was particularly struck by 
the Oriental character of the harmonies and "in- 
tervals" in Rebecca's song, "Lord of our chosen 
race," and I told Sullivan that I thought nothing 
could be more distinctively Eastern or even He- 
braic in type. 

"That may well be so," he rejoined. "The 
phrase on the words 'guard me' you especially re- 
fer to is not strictly mine. 1 Let me tell you where 
I heard it. When I was the ' Mendelssohn scholar ' 
and living at Leipsic, I went once or twice to the 
old Jewish synagogue, and among the many East- 
ern melodies chanted by the minister, this quaint 
progression in the minor occurred so frequently 
that I have never forgotten it. ' ' It certainly comes 
in appropriately here. 

The libretto of "Ivanhoe" was from the fluent 
pen of Julian Sturgis, the author of "Nadeshda." 
It won praise as a skilful and fairly dramatic 
adaptation of Scott's novel and a polished exam- 
ple of poetic lyric-writing. The work generally 
I described at the time as "one which rivets the 
attention of the spectator from the moment the 
curtain is raised ; which is strong and sympathetic 

1 The passage in question is this : 



Guard me, guard me, Guard me, Je-ho-vah, guard me. 

33 6 



Musical Life in London 



in action and picturesque in story; which is rich 
in melody and replete with musical interest and 
contrast; and which, finally, is presented amid a 
wealth of surroundings and with a perfection of 
executive detail such as English opera never en- 
joyed before." It was acclaimed with the utmost 
warmth by an audience that included the com- 
poser's ever-constant friends and patrons, the 
Prince and Princess of Wales, and the Duke and 
Duchess of Edinburgh. The cast on the first night 
comprised Marguerite Macintyre (Rebecca), Es- 
ther Palliser (Rowena), Ben Davies (Ivanhoe), 
Norman Salmond (Richard Cceur de Lion), 
Ffrangcon Davies (Cedric), Charles Kenning- 
ham (De Bracy), Avon Saxon (Friar Tuck), 
Charles Copland (Isaac of York), and that gifted 
American barytone, Eugene Oudin, who made a 
brilliant debut in the part of the Templar. The 
composer held the baton. 

The opera was at once scheduled "for a run," 
with two distinct casts, the alternative group in- 
cluding Miss Thudichum as Rebecca, Lucile Hill 
as Rowena, Franklin Clive as King Richard, Jo- 
seph O'Mara as Ivanhoe, and Richard Green as 
the Templar. The strain of this test was marvel- 
ously borne. For no fewer than one hundred and 
sixty consecutive representations did "Ivanhoe" 
draw large and enthusiastic audiences far and 
away the longest unbroken run ever accomplished 
by a serious opera. Then, at the end of July, it 
was withdrawn, and the house closed until No- 

337 



Thirty Years of 



vember, when an English version of Andre Mes- 
sager's successful comic opera -" La Basoche" 
was brought out. This did fairly well, but it is 
noteworthy to-day only from the fact that it en- 
abled Mr. David Bispham, by his clever singing 
and acting, to make a deep impression at his first 
appearance upon the London stage. 1 D'Oyly 
Carte now doubtless imagined that he possessed 
the foundation of a repertory, and he revived 
"Ivanhoe" to run alternately with "La Ba- 
soche" Barton McGuckin filling the title-role, 
while Medora Henson was the Rowena. But the 
public quickly undeceived the too sanguine mana- 
ger. It stayed severely away. The drawing power 
of Sullivan's beautiful opera had been exhausted; 
and on January 16, just a fortnight short of 
twelve months after its auspicious opening, the 
"Royal English Opera " was finally closed the 
strangest commingling of success and failure ever 
chronicled in the history of British lyric enter- 
prise ! 

1 The brilliant stage career of David Bispham virtually had 
its beginning with his singularly picturesque embodiment of the 
Due de Longueville in "La Basoche." There was about it an 
element of fantastic ~bizarrerie that was singularly attractive, and 
which at once drew attention to the unique personality of the 
artist. From that time forward, in whatever branch of his art 
he has elected to labor, David Bispham has consistently earned 
distinction and applause; and his success has been equally em- 
phatic on both sides of the Atlantic. His gift of versatility is 
extraordinary. Alike in serious and comic characters, in Wag- 
nerian music-drama and light French opera, in oratorio and 
Lieder, in declamation both spoken and sung, he has proved him- 
self a thoroughly intellectual, accomplished, and original artist. 

338 



Musical Life in London 



Yet, had there been nothing else, this venture 
would have been remarkable on account of the 
unusual number of American singers who made 
their debuts in the two operas. Many of them 
subsequently were to earn wide repute, while two 
at least Eugene Oudin and David Bispham 
were to achieve universal fame. I can recall few 
instances of a popularity so spontaneous as that 
vouchsafed to Eugene Esperance Oudin. Alike 
as artist and as man he rapidly became a gen- 
eral favorite. Among his warmest admirers 
was Jean de Eeszke; and I remember how pro- 
foundly he interested the famous tenor by his 
exquisite mezza voce, his perfect union of the 
" registers, ' ' and the rare ease with which he pro- 
duced his upper notes. His voice was singularly 
sweet and sympathetic in quality, yet not lack- 
ing in dramatic power; and none who saw him 
as the Templar will readily forget the extraor- 
dinary dignity of his assumption or the intense 
passion of his singing. His rendering of the fine 
air, "Woo thou thy Snowflake," was to my mind 
the vocal feature of the opera. 

Oudin had made himself a name both as a 
church singer and in opera before leaving the 
United States; but in London he seems at once 
to have risen to a higher plane, for there was 
need just then of a barytone possessing his special 
gifts. Thanks to his parentage, he had a pure 
French accent, and sang delightfully in that 
tongue. He also worked for some time with me. 

341 



Thirty Years of 



at German Lieder, and made quite a hit at the 
Philharmonic by his admirable declamation in the 
' ' Hans Heiling" air. His versatility was fur- 
ther demonstrated by a number of translations of 
French lyrics, all very neatly and smoothly done. 
He had quite a passion for amateur photography, 
and loved to obtain unconventional pictures of all 
the artistic celebrities who would consent to i ' sit. ' ' 
Among these was the group of the two de Keszkes 
and Lassalle at their breakfast-table at the Con- 
tinental, of which he sent me a copy accompanied 
by this note: 

31 LINDEN GARDENS, W., October 21, 1893. 
MY DEAR KLEIN: 

I send you per same post a print (proof) from my 
negative, ' ' Birds of a Feather, ' ' with every compliment. 
I shall not forget that it was through you and in your 
house that I first met the great singers who have since 
become my friends. 

It is an extraordinary coincidence, I think, that I 
should have put down for my part in the "Pops" this 
afternoon (and as long as a fortnight ago) four of my 
favorite Gounod songs. 1 Also that I am singing at the 
offertory in St. George's, Albemarle Street, to-morrow 
morning, under promise a fortnight old, the same mas- 
ter's "There is a green hill." 

Faithfully and fraternally yours, 

EUGENE OUDIN. " 

Alas! only eighteen months later I stood in the 
same church in Albemarle Street grieving be- 

1 The death of Gounod had been announced three days previously. 

342 



Musical Life in London 



side the bier of that sweet singer himself. He 
had fallen a victim to a mistaken sense of duty, 
literally wearing himself to death by nursing a 
friend who lay sick in his house. That was in- 
deed a sad and premature cutting off of a useful 
life. I had spoken to Oudin at the Birming- 
ham Festival (October, 1894), and remarked upon 
his thin, careworn aspect. Yet how beautifully 
he had sung the music of Dr. Marianus in the 
third part of Schumann's " Faust " ! It was all he 
had had to do at the festival; but it was enough, 
he had made his mark. Then he went home, and 
in a month's time was no more. 

The premature decease of Eugene Oudin is al- 
ways associated in my mind with that of Tschai- 
kowsky. The reason lies in a rather curious 
chain of circumstances. In the autumn of 1892 
the Russian master's opera "Eugeny Onegin" was 
produced in English at the Olympic Theatre, un- 
der the management of Signer Lago, with Eu- 
gene Oudin in the title part. It met with poor 
success, and after a few nights was withdrawn. 1 
In the June of 1893, Tschaikowsky came to Eng- 
land to receive the honorary degree of * ' Mus. Doc. ' ' 
at Cambridge University; the same distinction 
being simultaneously bestowed upon three other 
celebrated musicians Camille Saint-Saens, Max 

1 The whole undertaking was ill-timed and ill-placed. One of 
its few creditable features was the debut in England of the bary- 
tone Mario Ancona, who sang first in "La Favorita" and after- 
ward in ' * Lohengrin. ' ' He was engaged the following season 
for Covent Garden. 

343 



Thirty Years of 



Bruch, and Arrigo Boito. By a happy chance 
I traveled down to Cambridge in the same car- 
riage with Tschaikowsky. I was quite alone in 
the compartment until the train was actually 
starting, when the door opened and an elderly 
gentleman was unceremoniously lifted in, his 
luggage being bundled in after him by the por- 
ters. A glance told me who it was. I offered 
my assistance, and, after he had recovered his 
breath, the master told me he recollected that 
I had been presented to him one night at the 
Philharmonic. Then followed an hour's delight- 
ful conversation. 

Tschaikowsky chatted freely about music in 
Russia. He thought the development of the past 
twenty-five years had been phenomenal. He at- 
tributed it, first, to the intense musical feeling of 
the people which was now coming to the sur- 
face; secondly, to the extraordinary wealth and 
characteristic beauty of the national melodies or 
folk-songs ; and, thirdly, to the splendid work done 
by the great teaching institutions at St. Petersburg 
and Moscow. He spoke particularly of his own 
Conservatory at Moscow, and begged that if I 
ever went to that city I would not fail to pay him 
a visit. 1 He then put some questions about Eng- 
land and inquired especially as to the systems 
of management and teaching pursued at the Royal 

1 1 did visit Moscow in the summer of 1898, and, on presenting 
my card as an English friend of the lamented master, was re- 
ceived by the Conservatory officials with every attention and 
cordiality. 

344 



Musical Life in London 



Academy and the Royal College. I duly explained, 
and also gave him some information concerning 
the Guildhall School of Music and its three thou- 
sand students. It surprised him to hear that Lon- 
don possessed such a gigantic musical institution. 

"I don't know," he added, " whether to con- 
sider England an ' unmusical' nation or not. 
Sometimes I think one thing, sometimes another. 
But it is certain that you have audiences for mu- 
sic of every class, and it appears to me probable 
that before long the larger section of your public 
will support the best class only." Then the recol- 
lection of the failure of his "Eugeny Onegin" 
occurred to him, and he asked me to what I at- 
tributed that the music, the libretto, the perform- 
ance, or what! I replied, without flattery, that 
it was certainly not the music. It might have been 
due in some measure to the lack of dramatic fibre 
in the story, and in a large degree to the ineffi- 
ciency of the interpretation and the unsuitability 
of the locale. "Bemember," I went on, "that 
Pushkin's poem is not known in this country, and 
that in opera we like a definite denouement, not 
an ending where the hero goes out at one door and 
the heroine at another. As to the performance, 
the only figure in it that lives distinctly and pleas- 
antly in my memory is Eugene Oudin's superb 
embodiment of Onegin." 

"I have heard a great deal about him," said 
Tschaikowsky ; and then came a first-rate opportu- 
nity for me to descant upon the merits of the. 

347 



Thirty Years of 



American barytone. I aroused the master's in- 
terest in him to such good purpose that he prom- 
ised not to leave England without making his 
acquaintance," and hearing him sing ? ' ' I queried. 
"Not only will I hear him sing, but invite him to 
come to Russia and ask him to sing some of my 
songs there," was the composer's reply as the 
train drew up at Cambridge, and we alighted. 
Tschaikowsky was to be the guest of the Master 
of Merton, and I undertook to see him safely be- 
stowed at the college before proceeding to my hotel. 
Telling the flyman to take a slightly circuitous 
route, I pointed out various places of interest as we 
passed them, and Tschaikowsky seemed thor- 
oughly to enjoy the drive. When we parted at 
the college, he shook me warmly by the hand and 
expressed a hope that when he next visited Eng- 
land he might see more of me. Unhappily, that 
kindly wish was never to be fulfilled. 

The group of new ' l Mus. Docs. ' ' was to have in- 
cluded Verdi and Grieg, but these composers were 
unable to accept the invitation of the University. 
However, the remaining four constituted a suffi- 
ciently illustrious group, and the concert at the 
Cambridge Guildhall was of memorable interest. 
Saint-Saens played for the first time the brilliant 
pianoforte fantasia "Africa," which he had lately 
written at Cairo; Max Bruch directed a choral 
scene from his "Odysseus"; and Boi'to conducted 
the prologue from " Mefistof ele, " Georg Henschel 
singing the solo part. Finally, Tschaikowsky di- 

348 



Musical Life in London 



rected the first performance in England of his 
fine symphonic poem, "Francesca da Rimini," a 
work depicting with graphic power the torment- 
ing winds wherein Dante beholds Francesca in the 
"Second Circle " and hears her recital of her 
sad story, as described in the fifth canto of the 
"Inferno." The ovation that greeted each mas- 
ter in turn will be readily imagined. A night or 
two later I met Boi'to at a reception given in his 
honor by my friend Albert Visetti, and the re- 
nowned librettist-composer did me the pleasure of 
accompanying me to the last Philharmonic con- 
cert of the season, at which Max Bruch conducted 
a couple of works and Paderewski played his 
concerto in A minor. 

Tschaikowsky and Eugene Oudin duly met. 
The latter sang the "Serenade de Don Juan" 
and other songs of the Russian master, and so 
delighted him that the visit to St. Petersburg and 
Moscow was immediately arranged. Its success 
and its attendant sorrow are alike set forth in the 
following letter: 



HOTEL DE FRANCE, ST. PETERSBURG, 

November 8, 1893. 
MY DEAR KLEIN: 

You have, of course, read and commented on the ter- 
ribly sudden demise of Tschaikowsky. You can imagine 
its effect on me ! I missed him in Petersburg on my way 
to Moscow, and there received his message that he would 
not fail to be present at my debut in the latter city. 
Instead came a telegram of sudden sickness, danger 

349 



Thirty Years of 



passed, and hope. This was on Saturday last. On Mon- 
day morning a telegram came to speak of death! 

On Wednesday last he was sound and well ; he drank 
a glass of unfiltered water from the Neva, and cholera 
laid him low! It is awful! The musical societies 
throughout Russia are in mourning, and the concert 
which was to have been my debut in Petersburg (next 
Saturday, the llth) is postponed for a week. It will be 
made up entirely of works of the dead master. I shall 
sing the "Arioso" from "Onegin" and some of his 
romances, and the joint recital will take place the fol- 
lowing day. 1 

So my visit here is prolonged most unexpectedly. 

My debut in Moscow was a magnificent success. I 
was recalled and encored again and again, . . . and the 
notices are very fine. 

Yours in haste, but ever fraternally, 

EUGENE OUDIN. 

And now to return to 1891. So far I have spoken 
only of "Ivanhoe" and "La Basoche." At Co- 
vent Garden we had the heaviest opera season 
on record. Twenty operas were mounted, none 
of them novelties, but six for the first time under 
Harris's directorate; and ninety-four representa- 
tions were given in sixteen weeks. The total re- 
ceipts amounted to 80,000 ($400,000), and the 
impresario made a profit. It is interesting to note 
how the repertory and the personnel were begin- 

1 Oudin was accompanied on this trip by his wife, a talented 
singer who frequently appeared with him at his London recitals, 
but who, on the death of her husband, relinquished her career as a 
vocalist and became a teacher. 

35 



Musical Life in London 



ning to settle down into the mold or formula with 
which the American public was soon to become 
so familiar. Take the operas twelve perform- 
ances of " Faust' '; nine of " Lohengrin ' '; eight 
each of "Les Huguenots " and "Romeo et Juli- 
ette"; seven of "Carmen"; six of "Orfeo"; five 
each of "Don Giovanni/' " Tannhauser, " and 
"Rigoletto"; four of "Otello" (with Jean de 
Reszke in the title-role), "Traviata" and "Ma- 
non"; three of "Le Prophete" and "Mireille"; 
two of "Mefistofele," "Die Meistersinger, " " Lu- 
cia, " "Martha," and "Aida"; and (poor Bee- 
thoven!) one of "Fidelio." Again, among the fif- 
teen new-comers of the season were Emma Eames, 
Sybil Sanderson, Van Dyck, and Plangon, form- 
ing part of a company of no fewer than forty ar- 
tists, which included Jean and Edouard de Reszke, 
Lassalle, Maurel, Ravelli, Devoyod, Isnardon, and 
Montariol; with Nordica, Melba, Albani, Zelie de 
Lussan, Rolla, Regina Pinkert, Bauermeister, Giu- 
lia Ravogli, and the French contralto Mme. Ri- 
chard. Altogether a very remarkable collection, 
and in its make-up thoroughly suggestive of the 
Metropolitan Opera House, New York. 

On the second night of the season (April 7) 
Emma Eames made her London debut as Margue- 
rite in l ' Faust, ' ' that being her first appearance on 
any stage save the Paris Opera, where she had 
been a favorite for the two preceding years. Her 
singularly rich, flexible soprano voice, her refined 
and expressive singing, and her graceful bearing 

17 



Thirty Years of 



won for her warm admiration and instantaneous 
success. She looked Goethe's heroine to the life, 
and her conception of the character charmed alike 
by its naturalness and its tender womanly feeling. 
Four nights later she essayed the part of Elsa, for 
the first time, to the Lohengrin of Jean de Reszke, 
and again succeeded in creating a highly favorable 
impression. Later on she made a hit as Juliette 
and gave a delightful rendering of the music of 
Mireille, both of which characters she had studied 
under the personal guidance of Gounod. Her Mi- 
reille was, I recollect, a particularly captivating 
performance, and it is perhaps a little odd that it 
should not have subsequently filled a more con- 
spicuous place in the repertoire of this talented 
American artist. 

Equally unprecedented was the amount of op- 
eratic work done in the autumn. Besides D'Oyly 
Carte's hapless enterprise, a French season was 
given by Augustus Harris at Covent Garden with 
the concours of artists of the Paris Opera-Co- 
mique, comprising the graceful Mile. Simonnet, 
that fine singer Mme. Deschamps-Jehin, M. En- 
gel, M. Bouvet, and M. Lorrain. They gave for 
the first time there Alfred Bruneau's clever opera, 
"Le Reve," and Gounod's "Philemon et Baucis." 
Yet a third venture was an Italian season given 
by Signor Lago at the Shaftesbury Theatre. This 
was notable chiefly for the first production in 
England of Pietro Mascagni's "Cavalleria Rus- 
ticana," which, I need scarcely say, created a sen- 

354 



Musical Life in London 



sation. The performance (conducted by Arditi) 
was not to be compared with those subsequently 
heard at the leading opera-house, but it served; 
and the fame of the young Italian composer 
spread with marvelous rapidity. It should be 
noted that Marie Brema here made a modest but 
effective debut in opera as Lola; while the cast 
further comprised Adelaide Musiani (Santuzza), 
Grace Damian (Lucia), Brombara (Alfio), and 
Francesco Vignas (Turiddu). 

These artists gave a performance of ' ' Cavalleria 
Rusticana" before Queen Victoria in the Water- 
loo Chamber at Windsor Castle on November 25, 
1891. Her Majesty was greatly impressed by 
the new opera, and in the following summer, after 
Mme. Emma Calve had made her London debut 
as Mascagni's Sicilian heroine, the Queen com- 
manded her to sing at Windsor, together with the 
tenor De Lucia; Signor Tosti being at the piano. 
The two artists gave a selection from "Caval- 
leria," and, by Her Majesty's permission, went 
through their scene with action and gestures pre- 
cisely as though they were performing it upon the 
stage. So earnestly did they throw themselves 
into their parts, and with such characteristic sen- 
timent did they sing, that the venerable sovereign 
was deeply touched, and presented the artists with 
handsome mementos before they left the castle. 
I may note, by the way, that "Cavalleria Rusti- 
cana" was first performed in English by the Carl 
Rosa Company at Liverpool on January 14, 1892. 

355 



Thirty Years of 



This same winter season was marked by ope- 
ratic events of the greatest import to the United 
States. Encouraged by his previous successes, 
Henry Abbey determined to do things on a yet 
grander scale, and, with the aid of new associates, 
launched out upon a double enterprise of for- 
midable magnitude. One of those associates was 
destined thereafter to play an important part in the 
direction of opera on both sides of the Atlantic 
I refer to Maurice Grau. For the moment Abbey 
held the guiding reins, and nobody knew exactly 
how much he owed to the energy and tact of his 
junior partner. At the same time, the experience 
earned by Maurice Grau during this period was 
of inestimable value to him. He became familiar 
with the countless nuances of operatic manage- 
ment; he acquired his characteristic habit of 
blunt, straightforward dealing with artists of 
every rank; he developed his excellent business 
qualities, and learned the knack of gauging to a 
nicety the requirements of public taste. A finer 
practical schooling in the delicate duties of an 
impresario could not possibly have been devised. 
Nor could anything have been more timely. 

For the moment had now arrived when the 
American manager was to keep in closer touch 
with the London stage; when the "tricks and 
manners " of Covent Garden were to be immedi- 
ately imitated at the Metropolitan Opera House; 
when the same collections of artists and works 
were to serve for both countries. The double 

35 6 




Copyright, 1898, by A. Dupont, N. Y. 

EMMA EAMES 

AS JULIETTE 



Musical Life in London 



venture run by Abbey consisted of a big series of 
Patti concerts and a five months' season of grand 
opera with a company headed by Jean de Keszke. 
The renowned prima donna awakened, as usual, 
the utmost enthusiasm. At each concert a scene, 
in costume, from an opera was given, Mme. Patti 
being supported by Del Puente, Novara, and other 
artists, with Arditi as conductor. On the other 
hand, the debuts in America of Jean and Edouard 
de Eeszke were at the outset more successful in 
an artistic than a financial sense. It seems to 
have taken time for the public to realize that in 
the new Polish tenor a really great artist had 
come upon the scene. A small section of the press 
also appears to have hesitated, though not the 
leading critics of New York and Chicago, who 
quickly proclaimed the advent of a star of the first 
magnitude. That M. de Beszke himself was, on 
the whole, gratified by his reception may be gath- 
ered from the following letter: 

[Translated from the French.] 

AUDITORIUM HOTEL, CHICAGO, 

December 9, 1891. 
MY DEAR FRIEND : 

I beg to inclose some press cuttings from this place in 
order that you may learn of the success of your friends 
in America. I have sung twice in ' ' Lohengrin, ' ' twice in 
" Faust," twice in the " Huguenots, " once in " Romeo, " 
twice in "Otello," and once in " Lohengrin " at Louis- 
ville. That makes ten representations in a month. The 

359 



Thirty Years of 



public is very warm, very enthusiastic toward us. 
Edouard, for his part, besides the operas with me, has 
sung Leporello and in ' l Sonnambula. ' ' You would 
confer on us a great pleasure by showing the cuttings to 
Harris, to Higgins, and to your colleagues, in order that 
London may know how the artists of its choice have been 
winning honors here. I sing to-morrow "Aida," with 
Lilli Lehmann, for my farewell in this city; then on 
Thursday I leave for New York, where I am to make my 
debut on Monday in ' l Romeo. ' ' Trusting you are in good 
health, with a hearty hand-shake, believe me, 
Your devoted and ever grateful, 

JEAN DE EESZKE. 

In New York the brothers were met by their 
friend Lassalle, who made his first appearance 
as Nelusko in i ' L 'Af ricaine ' ' ; while, as Selika, 
Lillian Nordica also rejoined the company and her 
former comrades. That night was the most bril- 
liant of the season, and the cable messages to 
Europe told of unequivocal success all round. 
Yet the ' ' business, ' ' it appeared, was by no means 
first-rate, and, in the end, the entrepreneurs must 
have fared but moderately. The revanche, how- 
ever, was to come in the succeeding years, when 
the American public knew Jean de Reszke better 
and learned to appreciate the true majesty of 
his transcendent gifts. He, for his part, quickly 
reciprocated the warm feeling shown him by 
American audiences, and would frequently assure 
me how profoundly he esteemed their good opin- 
ion. To show this I quote an interesting letter 

360 



Musical Life in London 



he wrote me from Chicago in 1894, immediately 
after the production of Massenet's "Werther": 

[Translated from the French.] 

CHICAGO, March 31, 1894. 
MY DEAR FRIEND: 

In an artist's life every new role is a stage in that 
long journey toward the summits of art, toward the 
beautiful, the infinite. "Werther," the other night, 
was for me one of those unanimous successes wherein 
the heart the science of causing it to beat in one's audi- 
ence and before one's audience stood in true proportion 
to every artifice. The true path that of emotion that 
goal for which I am striving all my life was reached 
in the presence of a public which did not understand 
the words, but which divined by instinct that my con- 
ception of the character arose from that simplicity, that 
pure, unexaggerated truthfulness which age and matur- 
ity alone can confer upon the thinking artist. . . . 
I am sending you the cuttings from the newspapers 
here ; show them to Harris, who, I hope, will mount the 
opera for me. Mancinelli conducted the orchestra ad- 
mirably. Eames and Arnoldson are two adorable little 
sisters. In a word, I believe that to the cultivated 
London public, accustomed as it is to novelties, it will 
come as a delightful surprise. I sing regularly three 
times every week, and my voice is excellent. At this 
present moment I am reaching my forty-first perform- 
ance. Accept, my dear friend, from Edouard and my- 
self, a thousand affectionate remembrances, together 
with a hearty shake of the hand. 

Your devoted, 

JEAN DE BESZKE. 

361 



Musical Life in London 



Three months later, Harris did mount "Wer- 
ther ' ' at Covent Garden, with the Chicago cast, for 
the rentree of Jean de Reszke ; but the opera failed 
to please. Not even the genius of the artist could 
invest with enduring interest a work consistently 
sombre, undramatic, and dull. Yet, taken indi- 
vidually, his impersonation was, in its way, one 
of the supreme achievements of his career. His 
voice at this period was at its very finest; nor 
shall I ever forget his wonderful singing and act- 
ing in the duet of the third act, where "his beau- 
tiful tones fairly compassed the entire gamut of 
passionate longing and despair." 



362 



CHAPTER XVI 

German opera at Covent Garden Mahler as conductor De"- 
buts of Alvary and Schumann-Heink A growing repertory 
Victor Maurel and Manuel Garcia: The renowned teacher 
vindicated D^but of Clara Butt Leoncavallo and Mascagni 
in London How " Cavalleria " was first rehearsed at Borne 
"I Rantzau" Mascagni at Windsor Castle More State Per- 
formances. 

I va piano va sano, ed anche lontano." The 
old Italian proverb applies with some force 
to the progress made by Sir Augustus Harris 
toward the development of the important branch 
of opera which yet awaited his attention. The 
popularity of French opera in the French lan- 
guage would seem to have been the natural step- 
ping-stone to German opera in the German lan- 
guage. But I am not quite sure that Harris found 
his subscribers as ready as he himself was to risk 
the step. Annual pilgrimages to Bayreuth had 
not yet become a favorite amusement of the 
British aristocracy. Lady de Grey and her 
friends were said to be inclined to look askance 
at any proposition for the enlargement of the 
opera scheme beyond the lines which had hitherto 
proved so successful. However, it is to be pre- 
sumed that the opposition, if there was any worth 

363 



Thirty Years of 



speaking of, speedily broke down; for in the 
early spring of 1892 the impresario boldly an- 
nounced his intention of giving a series of Ger- 
man performances at Co vent Garden in mid-sea- 
son, with the aid of a special troupe of German 
artists engaged through the medium of the Ham- 
burg manager, Herr Pollini. 

By the press and the public this intimation was 
received with such unqualified satisfaction that 
Sir Augustus immediately followed it up with a 
further announcement to the effect that he would 
set apart seven Wednesdays in June and July 
for a subsidiary subscription, covering perform- 
ances of i ' Der Ring des Nibelungen, ' ' with ' t Tris- 
tan und Isolde" and "Fidelio." This was an 
adroit move. Wednesday was not yet a regular 
subscription night at the opera, and by thus util- 
izing it Harris not only secured a perfect guar- 
antee against loss, but offered his German sup- 
porters the opportunity of displaying themselves 
in grand- and pit-tier boxes, which they could not 
otherwise have obtained for love or money. The 
bait was greedily seized and a splendid subscrip- 
tion resulted. 

Ultimately, too, the company engaged for these 
representations proved worthy of the establish- 
ment to which it became temporarily allied. I 
was very anxious to see Bichter filling the conduc- 
tor's place, and at my suggestion Harris made 
an effort to obtain the great man's services. But 
in vain; he was already definitely engaged for 

3 6 4 



Musical Life in London 



the concerts of the forthcoming Musical Exhibi- 
tion at Vienna. In these circumstances, Herr 
Pollini recommended a young conductor named 
Mahler, who had been doing excellent work at 
Hamburg. Harris at once made terms with him; 
and thus for a single season did London afford 
hospitality to the talented musician who was 
shortly after to succeed Hans Kichter as chef- 
d'orchestre, and eventually to become director, of 
the Imperial Opera House at Vienna. 

It was arranged that Mahler should come early 
in the season. Ten years had elapsed since the 
"Ring" or any section of it had been performed 
in a London opera-house, and in order not to 
interfere with the other work it was deemed ad- 
visable to procure a separate orchestra to rehearse 
and accompany the Wagner music-dramas. I 
made Mahler's acquaintance soon after his arri- 
val. Smaller of stature than Anton Seidl, his 
clean-shaven, studious countenance nevertheless 
reminded me of the accomplished conductor 
whom I had seen at Her Majesty's in 1882; nor 
was he unworthy to be compared with him in 
temperamental qualities, well-balanced force, and 
rare concentration of energy. For a man who 
knew so very little English, I never came across 
any one so bent on speaking that language and 
no other. I met Mahler frequently at Harris's 
office, but could never induce him to carry on a con- 
versation in German. He would rather spend five 
minutes in an effort to find the English word he 

365 



Thirty Years of 



wanted than resort to his mother tongue or allow 
any one else to supply the equivalent. Consequently, 
a short chat with Mahler involved a liberal allow- 
ance of time. For the same reason, his orchestral 
rehearsals proved extremely lengthy and, to the 
spectator, vastly amusing. In order to famil- 
iarize his men with their exacting task, he would 
take his band in sections, and spend hour after 
hour going over the various scenes of the tetral- 
ogy and "Tristan." He knew his scores virtu- 
ally by heart, and infused into his executants that 
unity of spirit which only a born conductor can 
inspire. So it came about that the performances 
given under his direction were distinguished by a 
highly creditable excellence of ensemble. 

Absurd as it may seem, the " Nibelungen ' ' dra- 
mas were given out of their proper order because 
a certain great Bayreuth artist insisted upon mak- 
ing his English debut in a particular character. 
Herr Max Alvary wished to be seen for the first 
time here in his fine impersonation of Siegfried; 
consequently, we had to have "Siegfried" first; 
then "Rheingold" and "Walkiire," and then 
"Gotterdammerung" to wind up with. I know 
not whom to blame the more, Alvary for demand- 
ing such a piece of vandalism, or Harris for al- 
lowing it; but in either case "de mortuis nil nisi 
bonum," and there I halt. Certainly Alvary was 
an ideal Siegfried; and he had no less an ideal 
Brunnhilde in Eosa Sucher, who unfortunately 
was recalled to Germany after a night or two. 

366 




From a photograph by E. Bieber, Berlin 

ALVARY 

AS SIEGFRIED 



Musical Life in London 



Her place was taken by the gifted and lamented 
Frau Klafsky, whom I admired as a truly great 
Wagnerian artist. Other notable debutantes were 
the popular Frau Schumann-Heink, Fraulein 
Bettaque, Frau Ende-Andriessen, Fraulein Traub- 
mann, beside Greve, Lieban (inimitable Mime), 
and Zoltan Dome, who shared the leading roles 
with the veterans Reiehmann and Wiegand. 

So extensively did these German representa- 
tions draw that Sir Augustus determined to give 
some of them on off -nights at Drury Lane, mov- 
ing the scenery back and forth from one house 
to the other. The device paid him well, and, be- 
side the Wagner works, he added to his repertory 
Nessler's "Trompeter von Sakkingen," with 
Reichmann, Wiegand, Lorent, Landau, Bettaque, 
and Schumann-Heink in the principal parts. Al- 
together the experiment proved a complete suc- 
cess, and set at rest all doubts as to the wis- 
dom and desirability of mixing the undiluted 
German with those other operatic elements which 
Sir Augustus Harris (dropping the traditional 
" Italian ") had this season for the first time com- 
bined under the new official title of " Royal Opera, 
Covent Garden." 

Relieved of his shrieval duties, the genial im- 
presario now set to work to beat all previous rec- 
ords ; and he fairly accomplished the task. Apart 
from the German venture, he produced no fewer 
than three novelties, viz.: Mascagni's "L'Amico 
Fritz," Bemberg's "Elaine," and Isidore de 

3 6 9 



Thirty Years of 



Lara's " Light of Asia," this last being an Ital- 
ianized stage version of a setting, in cantata form, 
of portions of Sir Edwin Arnold's poem. None 
of these earned more than passing favor, albeit 
"L'Amieo Fritz," in virtue of Mascagni's charm- 
ing treatment of a delicious pastoral story and 
Calve 's exquisite embodiment of Suzel, deserved 
a better fate. But not even the united efforts of 
Jean de Reszke, Plangon, Melba, and Deschamps- 
Jehin could awaken more than a shadowy interest 
in M. Bemberg's saccharine opera. The general 
repertory was much the same as in the previous 
year, only more extensive; while lingual incon- 
gruities were perhaps more flagrant than ever. 
For example, we would hear in alternation the 
" Flying Dutchman" in Italian (with Lassalle as 
Vanderdecken) ; ' ' Tannhauser " in German; "Lo- 
hengrin" in Italian (Van Dyck singing the title- 
role in French) ; an English opera, "La Luce dell' 
Asia," in Italian; "Le Prophete" in French, 
with an Italian chorus; and so forth. Evidently, 
this feature of the bad traditions of old had yet 
to be improved; but in other respects the work 
done and the progress made were alike remarkable. 
In the course of the year 1892 Augustus Harris 
mounted at Covent Garden and Drury Lane the- 
atres as many as thirty operas, giving a grand 
total of one hundred and fifty representations. 

In the midst of this abnormally busy season, 
M. Maurel elected to deliver a lecture at the Ly- 
ceum Theatre on "The Application of Science to 

37 



Musical Life in London 



the Arts of Speech and Song." It was partly an 
amplification of a conference given shortly before 
at Milan and published at Paris under the title of 
"Le Chant renoue par la Science," wherein the 
distinguished barytone promised a book that 
should more or less completely revolutionize the 
art (or "science") of singing. For that book an 
impatient world is still waiting. The lecture, how- 
ever, duly came off, and, apart from mere prom- 
ises, its main feature proved to be an exceedingly 
virulent tirade against the coup de la glotte. 1 This 
would not have mattered much had it not hap- 
pened that Manuel Garcia himself was present, 
and had to "possess his soul in patience" while 
M. Maurel executed some ridiculous imitations of 
what he considered to be the indispensable vocal 
concomitants of the coup de la glotte a term de- 
rided only by certain Paris teachers who have 
misunderstood and misdirected its use. Age and 
dignity alike compelled Signor Garcia to sit still 
and treat with silent contempt this ill-timed and 
unjustifiable attack upon his method. When the 
lecture was over, however, I offered him the col- 
ums of the ' l Sunday Times " as a medium for re- 
plying to M. Maurel's assertions. On the spur of 
the moment, he accepted and sent a short account 
of the lecture, written in his own terse, trenchant 
manner. Then, thinking better of it, he decided 
not to take any personal part in the discussion, and 
requested me not to print his "copy." 

1 See reference to this subject on page 27. 

37 1 



Thirty Years of 



This threw the onus of reply upon me; and the 
answer proved so far effectual that M. Maurel 
was moved to make a protest, in other London 
papers, against any contradiction of his "scien- 
tific argumentation," save by M. Garcia himself, 
and not even then unless supported by something 
beyond "simple denial." Accordingly, the maes- 
tro then consented to write a letter to the "Sun- 
day Times," confirming the statement that he had 
found M. MaurePs illustrations of the coup de 
la glotte "extremely exaggerated," but declining 
that gentleman's invitation to discuss the subject- 
matter of his lecture, and adding that "it would 
be utterly impossible to argue upon theories which 
still remain to be revealed." Here the incident 
closed, and, as I have already said, the singing 
world is still awaiting the revelation of M. Maurel 's 
precious theories. Meanwhile, however, there are 
people who still think it their duty to assume the 
Maurelesque attitude, and boldly impeach a 
method for which no adequate substitute, real or 
imaginary, has yet been found. It is chiefly with 
the view of showing the hollowness of the attacks 
occasionally leveled at the coup de la glotte that 
I have recalled an episode which otherwise might 
have been allowed to dwell in oblivion. 

During the early "nineties" Sir Augustus Har- 
ris was the proprietor of the "Sunday Times." 
For some time he had been bent on possessing a 
newspaper, and would have actually started a new 
one on his own account had it not happened that 

37 2 




Copyright by A. Dupont, N. Y. 

CALVtf 
AS CARMEN 



Musical Life in London 



the old weekly came into the market once more. 
I was responsible for his buying it, and, as mat- 
ters turned out, neither he nor I had occasion to 
regret the step, despite the obvious delicacy of a 
position which, under ordinary conditions, might 
have involved the independence of a critic. I am 
bound to say, however, that Harris allowed me my 
full freedom; and, inasmuch as I had all along 
been an ardent supporter of his enterprise, my 
attitude was in no way influenced or disturbed 
through his temporary connection with the paper. 
He eventually sold it for exactly the same sum, 
I believe, that he paid for it to the present pro- 
prietor, Mrs. Frederic Beer. 

During the winter of 1892-93, the indefatigable 
impresario revived the bal masque at Covent Gar- 
den, thus furnishing the jeunesse doree of the Eng- 
lish metropolis with a form of entertainment 
which has ever since been keenly appreciated and 
regularly kept up. It is a common saying that the 
English take their pleasures sadly; but I may 
assert, without fear of contradiction, that these 
fancy-dress balls are a good deal less artificial and 
more spontaneous in their gaiety than the bals- 
masques held in the opera-houses in Paris and 
Brussels. That, I admit, is about all there is to 
be said in their favor. 

It was during the same winter that Clara Butt 
made her first appearance in public. The need 
for a new concert contralto of the first rank had 
become pressing. Trebelli had died suddenly at 

375 



Thirty Years of 



Etretat the previous summer ; and in the February 
of 1894 an even more sudden attack of heart disease 
closed the career of Janet Patey as she was leav- 
ing the platform at a concert at Sheffield. It 
was curious that midway between these two sad 
events there should have appeared upon the 
scene the artist who, whatever her vocal attributes 
as compared with those of her gifted predecessors, 
indisputably holds at the present time the position 
of leading English contralto. 

Miss Clara Butt made her debut, while yet a 
scholar of the Royal College of Music, in a per- 
formance of Gluck's "Orpheus," given by the 
pupils of the college at the Lyceum Theatre in 
December, 1892. Her unusually lofty stature 
lent to the embodiment of Orpheus a dignity and 
impressiveness that were at least equaled by the 
organ-like sonority and volume of her ample 
tones. Then she could neither act nor sing; 
but there was intelligence in her work, there 
was an evident faculty for imitation, and, above 
all, there was glorious material in her powerful, 
luscious voice. She continued her studies for 
some time in London and afterward in Paris, 
striding always toward popularity by a "royal 
road" that few young singers are fortunate 
enough to find. To-day she is a much improved 
vocalist, well up in the traditions of oratorio, 
and needing only complete control of her organ 
and fuller resources of expression and color to 
attain the highest level of artistic efficiency. Her 

37 6 



Musical Life in London 



husband, Kennerley Eumford, has a sympathetic 
light barytone voice with a style marked by ad- 
mirable refinement and distinction. 

A posthumous light opera by Goring Thomas, 
called the "Golden Web/' ran for a time at the 
Lyric Theatre in the spring of 1893, after a trial 
production by the Carl Rosa Company at Liver- 
pool. It was a charming example of the Auber 
school, and was ably conducted by Mr. Herbert 
Bunning himself a composer of recognized 
merit, whose opera "La Princesse Osra" was to 
be mounted at Covent Garden nine years later. 
That this Englishman will one day make a big 
mark in the world of music I instinctively feel. 
His is a singularly graceful talent, and of orches- 
tral effects he is a consummate master. When he 
comes across a really good libretto we shall per- 
chance discover in him the successor to Arthur 
Goring Thomas. Another light-opera debut at 
this period was that of the clever Spanish pianist 
and composer, Senor Albeniz, who conducted his 
"Magic Opal" during a run of considerable du- 
ration. A vastly superior work, however, was his 
"Pepita Jimenez," an exquisitely poetic opera 
founded upon Juan Valera's famous novel by 
Frank B. M. Coutts. I witnessed the production 
of "Pepita Jimenez" at the Liceo Theatre, Bar- 
celona, in January, 1896, and admired it so much 
that I often wonder why the little chef-d'oeuvre 
has traveled no farther. 

The features of the season of 1893 were the first 

377 



Thirty Years of 



visits to London of Leoncavallo and Mascagni, 
and the production there of their respective op- 
eras, "Pagliacci" and "I Rantzau." The fame 
of Leoncavallo's sensational opera had preceded 
it, and the public expected something remarkable. 
They were not disappointed. I have rarely seen 
an audience so breathless with excitement over 
the development of an opera plot. The effect of 
the little tragedy was augmented by the burning 
intensity of De Lucia, whose portrayal of the hap- 
less Canio's anguish and suffering was a triumph 
of realism. His touching soliloquy at the end of 
the first act was delivered with an abandonment 
of feeling that completely carried away his audi- 
tors. Very fine, too, was Ancona 's rendering of the 
already famous Prologue; deliciously pure and 
sweet was Melba's vocalization in the ballatella 
fo'r Nedda; excellent were the new-comers Rich- 
ard Green and Bonnard as Silvio and Peppe; 
while Mancinelli's conducting left not a point 
undiscerned throughout. Leoncavallo, modest 
and unassuming, waited quietly in the background 
till the end, and then had to be forced on to the 
stage by the artists to acknowledge the ovation 
that awaited him. This was quite early in the 
season (May 19), and Leoncavallo remained in 
London for several weeks. I found him to be 
a man of great culture and strong intellect. He is 
a poet as well as a musician, and in both arts he 
reveals the grasp of a profound thinker. 

Mascagni belongs to a different type. In Leon- 

378 



Musical Life in London 



eavallo there is a dash of the refined and diplo- 
matic Frenchman; in the composer of "Caval- 
leria Rusticana" one perceives, within as well as 
without, the impulsiveness, the impetuosity, the 
strong racial temperament of the full-blooded 
Italian. Quick as lightning in speech and gesture, 
excitable to the last degree, Mascagni carries his 
heart upon his sleeve, making no effort, appar- 
ently, either to conceal his sentiments or his 
thoughts. Here, plainly stamped, are the frank 
nature, the dogged perseverance, of the man who, 
under the most terribly adverse circumstances, 
was able to compose an opera which exhales the 
very essence of warm Southern passion, the very 
breath of free peasant life, the very spirit of Si- 
cilian jealousy and revenge. Sordid and repul- 
sive the story is and always must be; yet the 
music never fails to lift it from out the depths 
of its dramatic coarseness, and imparts to it a 
glamour and an intensity of color that few can re- 
sist. More than once has Mascagni told the tale 
of the pecuniary worries and the physical suffer- 
ings that he and his family underwent while he 
was writing the score of i ' Cavalleria ' ' in his 
effort to win the prize offered by the Milanese 
publisher Edoardo Sonzogno. No wonder the 
news that he had won it nearly bereft him of his 
senses. 

One day, at a dinner given by De Lucia (at the 
house of his friend Mazzoni in Charlotte Street, 
Bedford Square), Mascagni told us the sequel. And 



Thirty Years of 



if the story of the composition was touching, the 
less familiar account of his journey to Rome and 
the staging of "Cavalleria" at the Costanzi Thea- 
tre was unquestionably as quaint and striking. 
At the time the news of his success reached him, 
he was residing in the small Sicilian town of Ceri- 
gnola, where he filled the post of municipal con- 
ductor and organist at a tiny salary. Now the 
Sonzogno prize had not been awarded to Mas- 
cagni 's opera alone: it was divided between two 
(if not among three) of the competitors. Conse- 
quently, there was considerable doubt as to which 
of the successful works would be mounted first, 
or when and where the performance would be. 
Quite unexpectedly, one morning early in May, 
1890, Mascagni received an intimation that "Ca- 
valleria Rusticana" had been placed in rehear- 
sal at the Costanzi, and that his presence was 
forthwith required in Rome. 

The request came to hand at an unfortunate 
moment. So straitened were his circumstances 
that he actually did not possess sufficient cash to 
meet the expenses of the journey. However, he 
contrived to borrow the necessary sum from a 
friend, and arrived in Rome the next day but one, 
in good time for the rehearsal. I should like to 
quote Mascagni 's own words in describing what 
took place at the theatre, but to give them in 
cold English, without the aid of his eloquent ges- 
tures and his wonderful undercurrent of mimicry 
and " asides, " would be to deprive them of half 

382 



Musical Life in London 



their significance. Enough that he had barely 
stepped inside the stage door before he felt him- 
self upon " hot coals." Not a soul knew him. He 
had to introduce himself to the manager, who 
in turn presented him to the company as "the 
young composer who had been fortunate enough, ' ' 
and so on. Every one was studiously polite. The 
celebrated tenor Stagno, who was to honor him 
by creating the role of Turiddu, made a frigid 
bow; and the popular Gemma Bellincioni, who 
had accepted the part of Santuzza, offered him 
at least three fingers of her right hand. In short, 
it was a trying moment particularly so for a 
youthful musician who was nervous, anxious, and 
not over well fed. 

When the rehearsal began, it quickly became 
evident that the principals had already invented 
and arranged most of their "business," and had 
no thought of submitting their ideas to Mascagni 
for his approval. Once or twice it was, "Maes- 
tro, do you like this?" or "Do you care for 
that?" But, generally speaking, his opinion was 
not sought; and, although his experience as mu- 
sical director of a touring operetta company 
might have enabled him to drop a useful hint, he 
wisely refrained from interfering where such tre- 
mendously distinguished artists were concerned. 

In point of fact, too, he was like a man in a 
dream a veritable dream of paradise. Only 
once did he venture to ask a question, and that 
was at the outset of the rehearsal, when Stagno 

383 



Thirty Years of 



called for a chair just as lie was about to begin 
the Sicilian serenade which Turiddu is heard sing- 
ing in the prelude. With all humility he begged 
to inquire what the chair was for. (His imitation 
of the tenor's tone and attitude when he replied 
was exquisite.) 

"Pardon, caro maestro! This is my own little 
affair. When I want to sing an air con brio I 
always like to think of ' La donna e mobile, ' which 
I sing so well because I am all the time holding 
on to the back of a chair. Now, when I sing your 
serenade the curtain is down. Very well; no one 
sees me. I intend therefore to have my chair here 
to sing it just as if it were the 'Kigoletto' air. 
You will see, the effect will be superb !" 

It did not seem to have occurred to Stagno that 
the serenade in "Cavalleria" is heard approach- 
ing from the distance and gradually dying away 
again. But never mind; he wanted his chair, and 
Mascagni was very glad to let him have it. For 
the rest, the rehearsal passed off satisfactorily 
enough, and the opera went extremely well on the 
18th. How it created a furore that was to con- 
vert Mascagni into an idol and carry his name 
and music to the farthest corners of the civilized 
globe are facts that need no narration here. His 
debut at Covent Garden took place on June 19, 
1893, when he conducted "L'Amico Fritz " with 
Calve, De Lucia, Pauline Joran, and Dufriche in 
the cast. He was rapturously greeted by an audi- 
ence which included so many "royalties" that 

384 



Musical Life in London 



there was not room for half of them in the Queen's 
box. As a matter of course, he speedily became 
the "lion" of the season. 

The elements were thus ripe for a fresh triumph 
when the time came for the production of "I 
Rantzau" on July 7. Mascagni's third opera had 
seen the light at Florence only in the previous 
November. The book appeared to offer a prom- 
ising combination, being written by the librettist 
of "Cavalleria Rusticana" and founded upon a 
novel, "Les Deux Freres," by MM. Erckmann- 
Chatrian, the authors of "L'Amico Fritz." Un- 
fortunately, the material of the plot proved alto- 
gether inadequate for a four-act opera, while the 
love interest which so largely predominated in 
"L'Amico Fritz" was here subordinated to the 
events of a sordid quarrel between two wilful, ill- 
tempered brothers. Moreover, Mascagni treated 
the quarrel in an intensely tragic vein, which is 
nowhere more strikingly exemplified than in the 
long and elaborate finale to the first act. This 
ambitious piece of writing I have described as 
strong, rugged, original, and clever. "Neverthe- 
less, a big effort of the imagination is required to 
suppose an entire village so upset by a squabble 
over a field as to stand in two sections in the 
open piazza, shouting at each other for ten min- 
utes by the clock!" Even a street row in Nu- 
remberg, aroused by a matter of genuine public 
interest, was depicted by Wagner in less time than 
that. 

385 



Thirty Years of 



So, despite the presence and cooperation of the 
genial young composer, "I Kantzau" was not a 
success. The principal parts were sung by Melba, 
De Lucia, Ancona, David Bispham, and Castel- 
mary, and the opera was mounted in thoroughly 
efficient style. In the following week Mascagni 
found some consolation for this disappointment 
in the congratulations of the Queen, before whom 
he conducted the second act of "L'Amico Fritz " 
and "Cavalleria Rusticana." I had the pleasure 
of accompanying him to Windsor on this occa- 
sion. We had barely arrived at the Castle in the 
afternoon before Her Majesty sent for the com- 
poser, and bestowed upon him the unusual honor 
of an audience in the private apartments just 
before going on her customary drive. The Queen, 
speaking sometimes in Italian, but mostly in 
French, reminded him that she had already heard 
' ' Cavalleria, ' ' and expressed the deepest interest 
in his music. We took dinner with the members 
of the household, and the performance began at 
half -past nine. 

Her Majesty, who was accompanied by Princess 
Henry of Battenberg, Prince and Princess Chris- 
tian, Princess Henry of Prussia, Princess Louis 
of Battenberg, and the Grand Duke of Hesse, en- 
joyed the representation immensely, and directly 
afterward sent for Signor Mascagni, together with 
Mme. Calve, Sir Augustus Harris, Signor Vignas, 
and Signor Ancona, all of whom received hand- 
some souvenirs. The composer was presented 

3 86 



Musical Life in London 



with a portrait of Her Majesty in a silver frame 
bearing the autograph inscription, "Victoria E/. I., 
July 15, 1893. " In connection with this function 
I may mention, as a circumstance without prece- 
dent in operatic management, that Harris simul- 
taneously gave in London two other representa- 
tions, namely, " Faust " at Covent Garden, and 
"Die Walkiire" at Drury Lane, employing al- 
together upward of five hundred persons in the 
three performances. 

In the same month, also, Sir Augustus gave, by 
royal command, a State performance at Covent 
Garden, in honor of the marriage of the present 
Prince and Princess of Wales, when "Romeo et 
Juliette " was given with a cast including Jean 
and Edouard de Eeszke, Plangon, and Melba, 
Mancinelli conducting. This was the third royal 
gala representation at the opera within five years. 
As already noted, the first had been for the Shah 
of Persia, and the second was in honor of the Em- 
peror and Empress of Germany. At each of these 
celebrations the decoration of the auditorium was 
upon an increasing scale of gorgeous and lavish 
splendor; but not so that of the vestibule or 
grand staircase, nor even that of the foyer, since 
the impresario disliked the idea of spending large 
sums upon beautifying a building of which he 
was still only a yearly tenant. Hence an amusing 
bit of good-humored criticism from the Prince of 
Wales (now King Edward VII) on the night of 
the Kaiser's visit in 1891. During one of the in- 

387 



Thirty Years of 



tervals Harris was sent for and presented to their 
Imperial Majesties. Before leaving, he availed 
himself of the opportunity quietly to ask the 
Prince of Wales whether he was pleased with the 
decorations. His Royal Highness replied that he 
was delighted; then, taking the manager apart, 
he added in an undertone: 

"Delighted with everything, Harris, but the old 
carpet in the foyer. It has been there so many 
years! Really, it was too bad not to put down a 
new one for a night such as this!" 

Needless to add that the hint was acted upon 
long before the next gala night. 

By the way, on the occasion of the Kaiser 's 
State visit to the opera there was very nearly a big 
disappointment. Toward midday Sir Augustus 
received notice from Jean de Reszke that he was 
suffering from a bronchial attack and would be 
unable to sing. The tenor had undertaken to ap- 
pear in scenes from "Lohengrin," "Les Hugue- 
nots," and "Romeo," and consequently his in- 
disposition was a very serious affair. Being by 
chance at Covent Garden when the news arrived, 
I undertook to go round to the Continental and 
see if anything could be done before definitely 
altering the programme. I found M. de Reszke 
unwell, indeed, but by no means voiceless. 
Whereupon I laid before him arguments in favor 
of his making a superhuman effort to sing, rather 
than wholly disappoint so mighty and puissant a 
personage as the Emperor William II. I sug- 

3 88 



Musical Life in London 



gested that if he could not appear in all three ex- 
cerpts, he might at least sing in one, which would 
be a great deal better than not appearing at all. 
Ultimately, the considerate artist gave way, and 
I returned to Harris the triumphant bearer of 
the following characteristic note: 

[Translated from the French.] 

MY DEAR FRIEND : 

Klein has just asked me to sing at least one act of the 
three that I had promised you. Consequently I choose 
that of Romeo as the least fatiguing. Look upon this, 
my dear friend, as an evidence of my desire to spare 
you a portion of the trouble occasioned by my indisposi- 
tion. And in doing so I risk hurting my voice! Make 
an announcement. A thousand greetings ! 

JEAN. 

Two English novelties were added to the rep- 
ertory of Covent Garden during the last month 
of the season; but neither was sung in the ver- 
nacular, and neither attained to more than a suc- 
ces d'estime. Isidore de Lara's "Amy Bobsart" 
was set to a French libretto founded by Sir Au- 
gustus Harris and Paul Milliet upon Scott's 
"Kenilworth''; and the principal interpreters 
were Alvarez, Lassalle, Bonnard, Castelmary, and 
Emma Calve, Bevignani conducting. Villiers 
Stanford's "Veiled Prophet," originally com- 
posed to the English text of William Barclay 
Squire (who derived it from Moore's "Lalla 

39 1 



Musical Life in London 



Rookh"), had been produced in German at Han- 
over in 1881, and was now sung to an Italian ver- 
sion by Mazzucato. The cast comprised Lillian 
Nordica, Lucile Hill, Vignas, and Ancona, and 
the composer conducted. In addition to these 
works, Harris mounted Bizet's "Djamileh," Emil 
Bach's "Irmengarda," and (at Drury Lane) Ha- 
levy's "La Juive." The German performances, 
which did not begin until the end of June, were 
given under the direction of the celebrated May- 
ence conductor, Emil Steinbach. Again was Max 
Alvary the principal tenor ; while among the more 
notable recruits were Frau Moran-Olden, Frau 
Reuss-Belce, Fraulein Meisslinger, and the tal- 
ented Polish contralto, Fraulein Olitzka. 



39 2 



CHAPTER XVII 

A double artistic jubilee August Manns honored Garcia' s 
"Hints on Singing" Opera in 1894 New orchestral institu- 
tions Opening of Queen's Hall A procession of famous 
conductors Richard Strauss With Seidl at Bayreuth A 
Wagner anecdote Covent Garden in 1895 New pianists. 

THE English, jubilee of Joseph Joachim and 
Alfredo Piatti was celebrated on March 22, 
1894, by a reception at the Grafton Galleries, 
which the leading journal declared to be the most 
interesting event of its kind that had taken place 
in London since the memorable Liszt reception 
at the Grosvenor Gallery eight years before. For 
the organization of this function I was largely 
responsible as honorary secretary of the execu- 
tive committee ; and my duties constituted a veri- 
table labor of love, a glad tribute to the two great 
artists who, by a remarkable coincidence, had 
made their first appearance before the British pub- 
lic within a few weeks of each other in the spring 
of 1844. 

Unlike Liszt, neither of the honored guests on 
this occasion performed a solo upon his instru- 
ment. The only music was that furnished by what 
the late Lord Leighton was pleased to describe 

393 



Thirty Years of 



as " a good band. ' ' l The formal proceedings of 
the evening consisted of nothing more than the 
presentation of illuminated addresses, one read 
by Sir Alexander Mackenzie, the other by Sir 
George Grove, to which each artist in turn made 
an extempore reply. The addresses naturally laid 
stress upon the ties of friendship and affection 
that united the recipients to British lovers of 
music, and they gave expression to the deep admi- 
ration felt by the latter, as well as their gratitude 
to the distinguished artists for the inestimable 
benefits that had accrued to the cause of music 
in England through their yearly presence there. 
The replies, both delivered under the influence of 
profound emotion, were essentially characteristic 
of the modesty and single-hearted devotion of the 
two musicians. Piatti created much amusement 
by his reference to a "little fat boy in tight trou- 
sers,'' whom he saw make his first appearance in 

*In this respect the Berlin celebration of Dr. Joachim's ju- 
bilee was, of course, far more interesting. Then a grand concert 
was given, at which every member of the orchestra was a former 
student of the Hochschule, every individual fiddler a pupil of the 
"King of Violinists"; while, to make things perfect, the hero 
of the night was ultimately persuaded to take his violin and bow 
from three of his fair musical children and delight his excited 
auditors with a solo by Bach. I went over expressly to attend 
that unique and brilliant function. The orchestra was directed 
by Herr Steinbach, and as long as I live I shall never forget the 
magnificent quality of the tone of those violins or the superb 
elan that marked the performance of Weber's "Euryanthe" 
overture. Every player was an artist of repute, and the total 
value of the stringed instruments was computed at a quarter of 
a million dollars. 

394 



Musical Life in London 



London in 1844. "He had blooming cheeks and 
a short jacket, and he stepped up on the platform 
at the Philharmonic Concert and played Beetho- 
ven 's violin concerto in such style that everybody 
was astonished. It was my good fortune to be very 
much associated with the little boy in after years ; 
and his name was that of my friend, the great 
artist, Joseph Joachim." 

The renowned violinist, for his part, referred to 
his introduction by Mendelssohn to that hospita- 
ble land, and to the great advance which the Eng- 
lish people had made in their appreciation of 
chamber music, and instrumental music generally, 
during the past fifty years. He remembered how 
once in those far back days, when he had suggested 
that he should play at a concert Beethoven's 
lovely romance in F, he was informed there was 
a danger that the composition would be thought 
too classical. Now the quartets of the great mas- 
ters were constantly played, and a large section 
of the people heard them with delight. If he had 
helped in any way toward the advance that had 
taken place, he was proud and happy; for he 
looked upon England as his second home, where 
he had met with no envy, but only the kindest 
appreciation, and to which country he was bound 
by the closest ties of friendship. These words 
will not be quickly forgotten by an assembly that 
was, indeed, of a nature to do honor to the occa- 
sion. Art was represented by Lord Leighton, 
P. E. A., Mr. Alma Tadema, E. A., and Mr. J. C. 

397 



Thirty Years of 



Horsley, E. A. ; the law by the Lord Chancellor, 
Judge Meadows White, Q. C., and Sir George 
Lewis; and music by, among others, Sir Arthur 
Sullivan, Sir Joseph Barnby, Sir John Stainer, 
Sir Charles and Lady Halle, Sir Charles Hubert 
Parry, Sir J. F. Bridge, Mr. Edward Lloyd, Mr. 
Santley, Mr. Louis Ries, Mr. Ludwig Straus, Mr. 
S. Arthur Chappell, Professor Villiers Stanford, 
Mr. August Manns, Mr. F. H. Cowen, Mr. W. 
H. Cummings, Miss Agnes Zimmermann, Miss 
Fanny Davies, Mr. Leonard Berwick, Mr. Alfred 
Gibson, Dr. C. Harford Lloyd, and Mr. Franklin 
Taylor. 

It was my good fortune to undertake similar 
administrative duties in connection with the suc- 
cessful reception held at the same galleries in 
May, 1895, to celebrate the seventieth birthday of 
the popular Crystal Palace conductor, August 
Manns. In this instance the members of the Crys- 
tal Palace band volunteered their services out of 
compliment to their chief, who directed an in- 
teresting programme; while an address was read 
and presented by his old colleague, Sir George 
Grove, eulogizing the veteran conductor for the 
noble attitude he had assumed toward British mu- 
sic and British musicians. Furthermore, Queen 
Victoria's musical second son, the late Duke of 
Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, attended the reception, 
and pinned upon Mr. Manns 's breast the Coburg 
Order for "Kunst und Wissenschaf t. " 

Apropos of birthday honors, I may also mention 

39 8 



Musical Life in London 



that on March 17, 1894, Manuel Garcia entered 
upon his ninetieth year; and his brother profes- 
sors at the Royal Academy of Music seized the 
opportunity to present him with a silver tea- and 
coffee-service, accompanied by an illuminated ad- 
dress. Later in the same year, the venerable 
maestro brought out his second and last text-book 
upon the art wherein he had labored with such 
distinguished success for nearly three quarters 
of a century. In the compilation of " Hints on 
Singing," as this instructive catechism is called, 
I was fortunately able to render Signor Garcia 
material assistance; and the help thus gladly ten- 
dered finds gracious acknowledgment in the 'pref- 
ace. The " Hints" are published in the United 
States as well as in England, but have not yet 
attained the wide recognition that they deserve. 1 
The bewildering rapidity with which novelty 
succeeded novelty during the Covent Garden sea- 

1 The following quotation from the preface of ' ' Hints on Sing- 
ing" affords an admirably succinct statement of Signor Garcia 's 
views upon the degeneracy of the coloratur singer: "At the 
present day the acquirement of flexibility is not in great esteem, 
and were it not, perhaps, for the venerable Handel, declamatory 
music would reign alone. This is to be regretted, for not only 
must the art suffer, but also the young fresh voices, to which 
the brilliant florid style is the most congenial; the harder and 
more settled organs being best suited for declamation. It would 
not be difficult to trace the causes of the decline of the florid 
style. Let it suffice, however, to mention, as one of the most 
important, the disappearance of the race of great singers who, 
beside originating this art, carried it to its highest point of 
excellence. The impresario, influenced by the exigencies of the 
modern prima donna, has been constrained to offer less gifted 

399 



Thirty Years of 



son of 1894 has had no parallel either before or 
since. Within the space of three weeks (June 10 
to June 30) Sir Augustus Harris mounted Mas- 
senet's "Werther" and "La Navarraise," Al- 
fred Bruneau's "L'Attaque du Moulin, " and 
Frederic Cowen's "Signa"; the second of these 
being given for the first time on any stage. Both 
the French composers came over to superintend 
the production of their works. Massenet was as 
much disappointed by the comparative failure of 
"Werther" as he was delighted over the enthu- 
siasm that greeted that "blood-and-thunder" 
little music-drama "La Navarraise, ' ' which, how- 
ever, owed its temporary vogue chiefly to the ge- 
nius of Emma Calve. "L'Attaque du Moulin" 
won a more genuine artistic success, even if it 
did not secure a permanent place in the repertory, 
and an ineffaceable impression was made by the 
gifted mezzo-soprano, Mile. Delna, who then ap- 
peared here for the first time. Her Marcelline 
was a superb creation; and Bouvet's embodiment 
of the kind-hearted old miller, Pere Merlier, was 
also extremely fine. The performance, directed 
by Philippe Flon, was of astonishing excellence. 
M. Bruneau assured me he found it equal in every 
respect to that at the Opera-Comique, and he 

and accomplished virtuose to the composer, who in turn has been 
compelled to simplify the role of the voice and to rely more and 
more upon orchestral effects. Thus, singing is becoming as much 
a lost art as the manufacture of mandarin china or the varnish 
used by the old masters. " 

400 



Musical Life in London 



professional critic as well as composer is by no 
means easy to please. 

Mr. Cowen's "Signa" was not sung in Eng- 
lish. Originally composed to a libretto by the 
late Gilbert a Beckett (founded on Ouida's novel), 
and intended for the defunct Royal English Op- 
era, it had been produced in November, 1893, at 
the Dal Verme Theatre, Milan, where it was, of 
course, sung in Italian. It was now given at Co- 
vent Garden with the same foreign text, the prin- 
cipal parts being filled by Mme. de Nuovina, Ben 
Davies, and Ancona, while the composer con- 
ducted. So with another English novelty, "The 
Lady of Longford, ' ' produced later in the season : 
the book was by Augustus Harris, and the mu- 
sic had been set to it by Emil Bach; but for the 
performance Paul Milliet, a Parisian librettist, was 
called in, and the opera was sung in French by 
Emma Eames, Alvarez, and Edouard de Eeszke. 
Neither of these productions attained to more 
than passing favor. 

To the above record must be added two new 
Italian operas, Verdi's "Falstaff" and Puccini's 
"Manon Lescaut," both of which were brought 
out early in the season; and so well did the for- 
mer please that no fewer than eight performances 
were given of the old master's exquisite musical 
comedy. The German representations, as in the 
previous year, took place at Drury Lane, Klaf- 
sky and Alvary again heading the list of artists, 
with a new conductor, Herr Lohse, who returned 

401 



Thirty Years of 



to London in the same capacity in 1902. The fea- 
tures of the Carl Rosa season were a stage ver- 
sion of Berlioz 's ' ' Faust ' ' ; a new romantic opera, 
"Jeanie Deans, " written by Joseph Bennett and 
composed by Hamish MacCunn ; and the first pro- 
duction in England of Humperdinck's "Hansel 
und Gretel." At Covent Garden and Drury Lane 
alone, however, that is to say, quite apart from 
the Carl Rosa productions, ninety- two perform- 
ances of twenty-seven operas were given in eleven 
weeks, and of these works seven were mounted for 
the first time in London. 

Amid this orgy of operatic activity, another no- 
table development was in progress. I refer to the 
growing taste for orchestral music of the highest 
class. It was welcome for more than one reason. 
Accurately reading the signs of the times, it was 
impossible to shut one's eyes to the fact that ora- 
torio was on the downward path; that the once 
characteristic English love for choral music was 
distinctly waning. Without the Royal Choral So- 
ciety in London, without the prosperous provincial 
festivals and the legion of small choral societies 
in all parts of the kingdom, the oratorio and the 
cantata to-day might be looked upon in the light 
of a "negligible quantity/' The vast majority 
of metropolitan music-lovers would never miss 
them. It is more difficult to account for this than 
for the decline of institutions like the Crystal 
Palace and the Popular Concerts. The latter have 
lost their hold upon the public as the centre of ar- 

402 



Musical Life in London 



tistic movement has shifted from one scene to an- 
other, as the old supporters have died out, or as 
the famous performers most intimately associated 
with these enterprises one by one have disappeared 
from the platform. 

The opening of the new Queen's Hall, in Lang- 
ham Place, added a locale of much-needed interme- 
diate size to the number of London's concert- 
rooms. Any hope that it might be put to profitable 
use for choral performances was fairly dispelled 
by the experiences of a season or two. On the 
other hand, under the energetic management of 
Mr. Robert Newman, the popularity of orchestral 
music largely increased. In this direction the ap- 
petite of the public seemed to grow by what it fed 
upon, and the advent of a new and talented Eng- 
lish conductor in the person of Mr. Henry J. Wood 
added just that touch of personal magnetism, of 
attractive individuality, without which the finest 
collection of instrumental performers may appeal 
in vain. In a word, the Queen's Hall band and 
their leader quickly won renown, and their con- 
certs were soon to be regarded as synonymous with 
well-chosen schemes, interesting novelties, and ad- 
mirable performances. 

Nor did the effect of this growing love for or- 
chestral music end here. It brought augmented 
support to the Philharmonic Society, and it led to 
the establishment at Queen's Hall of an annual 
series of concerts in frank imitation of those given 
at St. James's Hall under the direction of Hans 

403 



Thirty Years of 



Richter. For this undertaking, managed by Mr. 
Alfred Schulz-Curtius, London was favored, sea- 
son after season, with a veritable procession of 
more or less renowned foreign conductors. First 
and foremost, in 1894, came Felix Mottl, the gifted 
Karlsruhe Kapellmeister; then, later in the same 
year, the youthful and ambitious Siegfried Wag- 
ner. In 1895 the late Hermann Levi paid a solitary 
visit; subsequently came Felix Weingartner, Ni- 
kisch, and Richard Strauss. But for at least two 
or three concerts every year until the enterprise 
was abandoned did Felix Mottl direct perform- 
ances of Beethoven symphonies and Wagner ex- 
cerpts that were distinguished by a very high order 
of merit. During the same period, in a fitting 
spirit of emulation, Mr. Robert Newman secured 
the services of the famous French conductors MM. 
Lamoureux and Colonne. At first these musicians 
brought over their own orchestras, and some mag- 
nificent work was done by both. The plan, how- 
ever, proved too expensive, and, while M. Colonne 
did not repeat his visit, his accomplished rival was 
content, after one or two seasons, to utilize, when 
he came, the excellent material of the Queen 's Hall 
band. This he did until just before his death, 
which occurred in 1899. 

It was at the concert conducted by Hermann Levi 
on April 25, 1895, that that fine artist, Milka Ter- 
nina, made her London debut. This was the only 
occasion on which I ever heard her sing "off the 
key." The high English pitch was still employed 

404 




From a photograph by Davis <fc Sanford, N. Y. 

TERNINA 



Musical Life in London 



then at Queen's Hall, and it frequently upset her 
intonation ; beside, her singing lacked the freedom 
and inspiration that it acquires in a stage per- 
formance. I remarked at the time: "Fraulein 
Ternina has a splendid voice, and is a singer of re- 
markable intelligence; but it is evidently only in 
combination with her qualities as an actress that 
she can display these rare gifts in their true light. ' ' 
And my words were fully borne out when the Mu- 
nich soprano made her first appearance at Covent 
Garden, three years later, in her superb embodi- 
ment of Isolde. Her triumph in that instance was 
brilliant and complete. 

Siegfried Wagner came twice to London. In the 
autumn of 1894 he challenged criticism as a con- 
ductor only, and was "let off " pretty lightly. He 
wielded the baton with his left hand, but his beat 
was firm and distinct, and his readings, if color- 
less, were intelligent and clear. In the summer of 
1895 he appeared as a composer, and presented to 
the world, for the first time, a symphonic poem 
written after Schiller's " Sehnsucht. ' ' This work 
revealed promise, but it was "the promise of the 
child who tries to run before he can walk, the pre- 
maturely exposed talent of the artist who repre- 
sents on canvas some great problem of human life 
before he has mastered the art of mixing his col- 
ors." At the same concert he gave a practical 
demonstration of his father's ideas concerning the 
interpretation of Beethoven 's ' l little ' ' symphony in 
F. On the other hand, his reading of the "Der 

407 



Thirty Years of 



FreiscMtz ' ' overture was ' ' simply remarkable for 
wilful eccentricity and a flagrant disregard for the 
obvious intentions of the composer." 

Richard Strauss paid his first visit to England 
in December, 1897. His songs and chamber pieces 
were tolerably well known, but of his orchestral 
works only three had so far been heard in London 
namely, the symphony in F (April 12) and the sym- 
phonic poems, "Till Eulenspiegel " and "Also 
sprach Zarathustra. ' ' He now brought with him 
the ' i Tod und Verklarung, ' ' wherein is depicted the 
death struggle of a man before whose mental vision 
there passes the panorama of a wasted life, fol- 
lowed by the man's transfiguration, as his re- 
deemed soul passes out of earthly existence into 
a higher state. The second section of this remark- 
able work made an especially deep impression, and 
at the close the composer was overwhelmed with 
applause. Strauss 's gifts as a conductor were made 
manifest in very positive fashion. In his own mu- 
sic startling contrasts, powerful crescendos, and ex- 
citing climaxes naturally abounded. In the inter- 
pretation of Mozart and Wagner he displayed an 
admirable command of dynamic effects, ranging 
from the most delicate to the most sonorous ; and 
in everything alike he revealed the intellectual in- 
sight and authority, the artistic culture, the mag- 
netic force, the strong individuality of a musician 
of genius. 

The name of Anton Seidl may perhaps be missed 
from the group of leading German conductors enu- 

408 



Musical Life in London 



merated above. As a matter of fact, however, Seidl 
scarcely had an opportunity of displaying his pow- 
ers in London as a concert conductor. His appear- 
ances there were solely in connection with opera 
the "Nibelungen" performances at Her Majesty's 
in 1882, and the German representations at Covent 
Garden in 1897. In the course of the latter I saw 
him frequently, and one night he accompanied me 
to a Richter concert at St. James's Hall. He had 
not seen his great Viennese rival upon the platform 
for many years, and was especially curious to hear 
his rendering of Tschaikowsky 's t ' Pathetique ' 
symphony. He was delighted with every feature 
save one. Directly after starting the second (5-4) 
movement, Eichter laid down his baton and al- 
lowed the band to proceed without guidance to the 
end of the piece. Seidl knit his brows and looked 
stern, but did not utter a word till the room was 
ringing with applause. Then he turned to me and 
said: "I wish he had not done that. It was to 
show that, in spite of the awkward rhythm, his men 
could keep perfectly together without the beat, and 
maintain the necessary precision all through the 
movement. So they did ; but the result was a very 
machine-like performance. It was much less crisp 
and animated than it would have been if Eichter 
had conducted it with his arm as well as with his 
eyes!" 

The last time I saw Seidl was at Bayreuth in 
1897. He was conducting "Parsifal" that sum- 
mer; and what a glorious treat it was to listen to 

409 



Thirty Years of 



the orchestra under him, immediately after the 
blurred and ponderous execution of the ' ' Nibelun- 
gen" under Siegfried Wagner! On one of the 
"off days" of the festival, Seidl invited his friend 
Francis Neilson and myself to lunch with him at 
the i * Schwarze Adler. ' ' * The usually quiet, re- 
served musician was disposed to * ' come out of his 
shell" that afternoon, for when lunch was over he 
developed a communicative mood such as neither 
Neilson nor I had ever observed in him before. He 
told us story after story of his early experiences 
with Wagner, dating from the time when he first 
went to Bayreuth in 1875 for the purpose of act- 
ing as his secretary and of assisting to make a 
"clean copy" of the score of the "Ring." His 
preliminary interview with the master in the li- 
brary at Wahnfried was among his more vivid 
recollections. When he entered the room he 
thought no one was there but himself. So he 

1 Anton Seidl was at that period setting to music for the stage 
the first part of a trilogy entitled "Manabozo," written by 
Francis Neilson, and founded upon the myths of the North Amer- 
ican Indians. The fact was kept secret, and nobody seems to 
have heard any of the music but Mr. Neilson (now stage man- 
ager of the Eoyal Opera, Co vent Garden), who declared that it 
possessed beauty and originality of no mean order. I understood 
that the first part of the trilogy had been fully sketched and 
was partially scored for orchestra; but what became of the score 
I am unable to say. The poem of "Manabozo" was published 
separately in London in 1899 by John Macqueen, Norfolk Street, 
Strand, and was dedicated by the author to the memory of Anton 
Seidl. The preface states that this work was Seidl 's "dearest 
aim," and that his "confidence and belief in the subject and its 
potentialities" were extraordinary. 

4IO 



Musical Life in London 



pulled out his letter of introduction and inwardly 
rehearsed for the twentieth time the little speech 
which he had prepared. Suddenly, from out of 
a dark corner, where he had been reading or 
searching for a book, there sprang into view Ri- 
chard Wagner ! The apparition so completely up- 
set poor SeidPs equanimity that he found him- 
self unable to utter a single sentence of his speech. 
Even in reply to the master's questions he could 
barely manage to blurt out a monosyllable. At 
last Wagner dismissed him with the remark, "If 
you work as well as you hold your tongue you will 
do. " And from that time forward his capacity for 
silence was a standing joke at Wahnfried. 

Seidl also told us the "fish story " which he 
related to Mr. H. T. Finck 1 as an instance of Wag- 
ner 's love of animals, with the additional informa- 
tion that this quaint encounter with the old fish- 
woman at the Bayreuth railway station was the 
immediate cause of the famous diatribe which the 
sensitive composer penned against the practice of 
vivisection. Another anecdote narrated by Seidl, 
and possessing an even wider interest, is worth 
setting down here at length. 

Early in December, 1878, Wagner made up his 
mind that his wife should be serenaded on her 
birthday at Christmas with the strains of the " Vor- 
spiel" to "Parsifal," of which work he had then 
completed the first act. The only question was 
how to obtain an orchestra. After some reflec- 

1<( Wagner and his Works," by H. T. Finck, Vol. II, p. 203. 
411 



Thirty Years of 



tion, Wagner determined to procure the services 
of the celebrated Meiningen performers, but of 
course without their conductor, then no other than 
Dr. Hans von Billow, Frau Cosima Wagner's first 
husband. The project was kept a profound secret, 
and young Anton Seidl was forthwith despatched 
to Meiningen to arrange matters with the band. He 
arrived there early in the morning, and went direct 
to the hotel at which von Billow was staying. The 
worthy doctor was practising, and, being unac- 
quainted with Seidl, sent out word that he could 
not see him until eleven o'clock. Accordingly, at 
that hour he presented himself at the great pian- 
ist's apartment and was duly ushered into his pres- 
ence. At the first mention of Wagner's name von 
Billow drew himself up and inquired in an icy tone 
what it was that Herr Wagner wanted. Seidl 
explained the object of his mission. 

"Well," replied the doctor, "you must permit 
me to inform you that I do not occupy myself at 
all with the engagements of my orchestra. If Herr 
Wagner requires their services, his ambassador 
must be good enough to address himself to my 
Conzertmeister. Good morning." And with that 
he stiffly bowed Seidl out. 

The "ambassador" quickly found the leader of 
the band, and, the Duke of Meiningen 's permission 
being readily granted, it was arranged that the 
men should be at Bayreuth by a certain evening. 
They assembled in good time at the Sonne Hotel, 
where Wagner met them and conducted a rehear- 

412 



Musical Life in London 



sal of the i i Vorspiel. ' ' Early next morning, while 
Fran Cosima was still asleep, the heavier instru- 
ments were conveyed to Wahnfried, and the play- 
ers quietly stationed themselves at their desks in 
the vestibule and upon the staircase. When all was 
ready, Wagner gave the signal, and his much-hon- 
ored wife awoke from her slumbers to hear for the 
first time the mystic phrases of the prelude to 
"Parsifal." 

In 1895, for the first time for eight years, there 
was a London opera season without the coopera- 
tion of Jean de Reszke. This was the year of 
Mme. Patti's return to the stage of Covent Gar- 
den, an event to which reference has already been 
made. Prior to her rentree the diva sang at a 
Philharmonic concert, and was presented on that 
occasion with the society's gold medal an honor 
bestowed upon only sixteen musicians before her. 
Her six appearances at the Opera (as Violetta and 
Rosina) resulted in a splendid and unparalleled tri- 
umph for herself and a handsome profit for her old 
friend Augustus Harris. Another welcome return 
was that of Marcella Sembrich, who had not sung 
in London since 1884, and was now a greater artist 
than ever. The prime donne further included 
Melba, Calve, Albani, Emma Eames, Marie Engle, 
and Marguerite Macintyre altogether a rare 
galaxy of soprano talent; so that, with Tamagno, 
De Lucia, and Alvarez dividing the principal tenor 
work, the absence of the distinguished Pole was 
less felt than it otherwise would have been. The 

413 



Thirty Years of 



principal debutante was Gemma Bellincioni, but her 
lack of vocal charm was fatal to the chance of the 
original Santuzza winning favor in England. 

The only important novelty was Frederic 
Cowen's "Harold," a four-act dramatic opera, 
composed to a weak libretto by Sir Edward Malet, 
and, mirabile dictu, sung in English before a Co- 
vent Garden audience in mid-season! The fine 
music of this work deserved more enduring suc- 
cess. The cast comprised Mme. Albani, Miss 
Meisslinger, Philip Brozel, David Bispham, and 
Eichard Green ; but, unluckily, there was a lack of 
distinction (and distinctness) about the general 
rendering that was scarcely calculated to engender 
in aristocratic auditors any particular love of op- 
era in the vernacular. Anyhow, the English ex- 
periment was never repeated; while, on the other 
hand, a performance of 1 1 Tannhauser ' ' in French, 
given later in the summer, was hailed with posi- 
tive delight. Concurrently with the regular Covent 
Garden enterprises, the stock company from the 
ducal theatre at Coburg appeared at Drury Lane 
in a series of light German operas comprising ' l Der 
Vogelhandler, " "Die Fledermaus," and "Die ver- 
kaufte Braut." These admirable representations 
were thoroughly appreciated. 

It is timely here to note the gradual advent of 
the new generation of modern pianists, filling in 
the gaps left by the decease of favorites like Mme. 
Schumann, Anton Rubinstein, Hans von Billow, 
and Sir Charles Halle, all of whom died between 

414 



__ 




Pu * 
o >> 



SI 




Musical Life in London 



1894 and 1896. The predominant position of Pa- 
derewski had long since been assured; now, how- 
ever, came Moritz Eosenthal and Eugen d 'Albert, 
seeking a London indorsement of the reputations 
they had already won on the Continent and in 
America. In each case the general verdict was 
emphatically ratified. Moritz Rosenthal's debut 
at the Richter concerts (June 10, 1895), when he 
played the Liszt concerto in E flat, created a gen- 
uine sensation; and his subsequent recitals con- 
firmed the opinion that he possessed the most phe- 
nomenal technique of any living pianist. 

Eugen d 'Albert was regarded in the light of a 
i ' prodigal. ' ' A native of Glasgow and educated at 
the National Training School for Music in London, 
he might with all fairness have been termed a Brit- 
ish product. He preferred, however, to call himself 
a German, and had not stood upon an English con- 
cert platform since boyhood till he appeared at 
Queen's Hall under Felix Mottl (April 28, 1896), 
and gave a magnificent performance of Beetho- 
ven's E flat or " Emperor" concerto. He had a 
cold reception, but after he had played it became 
evident that the old grievances had been forgotten 
in the presence of a legitimate virtuoso, of a true 
artist possessing the fire of unmistakable genius. 
Personally I admire his playing immensely; and 
as an interpreter of Beethoven, it is upon the shoul- 
ders of d' Albert that the mantle of Rubinstein, to 
my thinking, has fallen. His place as a composer 
will have to be decided by a future generation. 

417 



Musical Life in London 



Among other native pianists now coming to the 
fore were Frederic Lamond and Frederick Dawson, 
natives of Scotland and Lancashire, respectively. 
Ilona Eibenschiitz, a pupil of Mme. Schumann, had 
become quite a favorite; and the romantic school 
had also a gifted and popular exponent in the clever 
Hungarian artist Benno Schonberger. Also note- 
worthy were the debuts at about the same time of 
Emil Sauer, Ferrucio Busoni, and Ossip Gabrilo- 
witsch. 



418 



CHAPTER XVIII 

A visit to America Jean de Reszke as a German singer Nor- 
dica's triumph A private recital of " Tristan "The London 
season of 1896 Death of Sir Augustus Harris Two funerals 
at St. Paul's Edward Elgar "In a Persian Garden" 
Charles Salaman Puccini's "La Boheme "Operas and de"- 
buts in 1897 Opera at Windsor: the Queen's last "com- 
mands." 

JEAN DE BESZKE'S first appearance as a 
German singer in Wagnerian opera was des- 
tined to take place, not in England, but in America. 
This was during the winter of 1895-96. My im- 
patience to hear him sing in German was natural, 
for I had fully sympathized with his desire to 
escape from the trammels of the Italian transla- 
tion, and had done my share toward paving the way 
for his mastery of the original text. Fortune was 
kind enough to afford me an earlier opportunity 
than I had anticipated of enjoying the fruit of this 
endeavor. It happened that at Easter, 1896, I 
paid my first visit to the United States for the pur- 
pose of attending the production of the comic opera 
"El Capitan," of which my brother, Charles Klein, 
was the author and John Philip Sousa the com- 
poser. Directly after that successful event I spent 
a week in New York, just when Mr. Grau's supple- 

419 



Thirty Years of 



mentary season at the Metropolitan Opera House 
was approaching its close. 

I had hoped, before my return to England, to hear 
both "Lohengrin" and " Tristan" in German; but, 
as it turned out, I could not remain for the latter. 
My passage was booked for 'Saturday, and "Tris- 
tan" was not to be given until the following Mon- 
day. In vain did the warm-hearted Polish brothers 
endeavor to persuade me to stay and sail with them 
on Wednesday. I dared not delay my return by a 
single day. I should have to be content, therefore, 
with hearing "Lohengrin," and wait for "Tris- 
tan" until it was done at Covent Garden later in 
the spring. That is precisely what did occur; but 
my self-denial was first to receive compensation 
in the shape of a very rare, if not unparalleled com- 
plimentone of those tributes of personal regard 
which we appreciate most when they are perfectly 
spontaneous and unpremeditated. 

It was arranged that we were all to sup together 
in Mme. Nordica's apartments at the Savoy after 
the performance of "Lohengrin." Our hostess 
was, indeed, the heroine, in a special sense, of that 
representation; for after the bridal scene she was 
presented with a superb diamond tiara, which had 
been subscribed for by the leaders of New York 
society. The assemblage was one of the most bril- 
liant and crowded of the season. It was the first 
time I ever saw the Metropolitan Opera House, and 
I was much struck with its handsome proportions. 
Then again, under Anton Seidl's magic wand, the 

420 




Copyright, 1898, by A. Dupont, N. Y 

NORDICA 

AS BRUNNHILDE 



Musical Life in London 



performance touched at all points a very high level 
of excellence. Finally, I derived immense pleasure 
from the novel sensation of hearing Jean and 
Edouard de Eeszke as exponents of Wagner's own 
text. Their conscientious enunciation of each syl- 
lable, their accurate diction, and their admirable 
accent seemed to impart an added dignity alike to 
the music and to their impersonations. Even the 
more cultivated listener might easily have im- 
agined them to be native German singers. Mme. 
Nordica, too, handled the German words with re- 
markable facility and confidence. Altogether, it 
was a most meritorious achievement. 

The subsequent reunion at the hotel found every 
one in the highest spirits. Beside the three artists, 
there were present Mme. Nordica's sister (Mrs. 
Walker) and Mr. Amherst Webber, the talented 
English maestro al piano, who had recently acted 
as accompanist to the brothers in their Wagnerian 
studies. After supper the conversation turned 
upon Bayreuth, and allusion was made to a certain 
half-promise given by Jean de Eeszke to Frau Co- 
sima, that he would one day sing Tristan and 
Walther, or perhaps even Siegfried, at the festi- 
val. I remarked that, after what I had heard 
that night, I entertained no doubts concerning the 
adequate quality of his accent. This only elicited 
a further request that I would stay in New York 
until I had heard how it sounded in " Tristan.'* 
Then the distinguished tenor turned to Mme. Nor- 
dica and proposed that, as I was evidently not to 

423 



Thirty Years of 



be made to alter my determination, the best thing 
they could do would be to " bring the mountain 
to Mohammed " and sing some " Tristan " to me 
there and then; and that between one and two in 
the morning, and after a heavy opera like " Lohen- 
grin "! Surely it was not possible. But surprise 
and incredulity quickly changed to delight. For, 
without an instant 's hesitation, Mme. Nordica con- 
sented ; Mr. Webber went to the piano and played 
a few introductory bars; and, almost before I 
could realize what was being done, the two gifted 
artists were warbling the wondrous love scene from 
Wagner's immortal music-drama. 

They did not spare themselves, either, these gen- 
erous friends. They sang with full voice; they 
went through not only the scene with which they 
had started, but the duet of the first act as well; 
and, from beginning to end, the exquisite beauty of 
their phrasing, the blending of their voices in per- 
fect intonation and unity of color, the significance 
of their supreme dramatic interpretation, con- 
stituted at once a marvel and a revelation. It was 
a strange experience, sitting at the supper-table 
(for none of us but Mr. Webber had moved from 
our seats) while for an hour or more those two 
famous singers reveled in the enjoyment of their 
self-imposed task undertaken for the sole purpose 
of conferring pleasure upon an old friend. The 
picture of that night remains vividly imprinted 
upon my mind, even as its vocal spell lives fresh 
and fragrant among my most treasured memories. 

424 



Musical Life in London 



I shall always be grateful for the privilege of hav- 
ing listened to some of the grandest pages of ' ' Tris- 
tan " under such novel and interesting conditions. 

A month later the de Reszkes were at Co vent 
Garden, giving habitues a taste of their quality as 
German singers in "Lohengrin," " Tristan, " and 
"Die Meistersinger. ' ' Their success was unquali- 
fied. In the new Tristan was hailed the beau-ideal 
the perfect conception and the complete realiza- 
tionof the noblest of Wagner's knightly heroes. 
The Konig Marke and the Hans Sachs of Edouard 
de Reszke won unstinted admiration. Also to be 
noted was the Pogner of Pol Plangon, an artist 
whose magnificent organ and supreme gifts alike 
as singer and as actor had by this time won him 
immense popularity in London. Unfortunately, 
Mme. Nordica did not come that season to share in 
the triumphs of the new German campaign. Al- 
bani sang Elsa and Isolde; Emma Eames was the 
Eva and a delightful one, I remember. But the 
Gallic craze was still rampant, and in the midst of 
all this good work we were amazed at the spectacle 
of a performance of "Die Walkiire" in French, 
with Alvarez (not Alvary, poor fellow!) as Sieg- 
mund, Lola Beeth as Sieglinde, Mantelli (sic) as 
Brunnhitde, Albers as Wotan, and Castelmary as 
Hunding! Little need to state that the absurd and 
useless proceeding was a dismal failure. 

The most notable event of the season of 1896 was, 
alas! the death of Sir Augustus Harris. It was 
in the middle of June, at a moment when every- 

425 



Thirty Years of 



thing appeared bright and prosperous, that Lon- 
don was startled by the sudden illness and prema- 
ture decease of its favorite manager. Only forty- 
four years of age, the universally popular "Gus" 
died amid general expressions of sorrow. Like 
Tom Bowling in the ballad, "his friends were 
many and true-hearted"; these mourned for the 
man. But countless were the numbers of those that 
had never known him, yet deplored the loss of the 
genial worker who had catered generously to their 
theatrical amusement, and had raised opera in 
England from a "moribund" state to its present 
flourishing condition. Harris did not realize the 
limit of his physical powers. Though his heart 
was only in two or three undertakings, his brain 
and hand were in a dozen. When death overtook 
him he was actually struggling to revive the lan- 
guishing fortunes of the huge circus business known 
as Olympia! 

"His genius was of that Napoleonic order which 
comes but rarely into existence and still more rarely 
finds its exact bent. His spirit moved with the 
times; it was fin de siecle in the most marked de- 
gree, and it brooked the interference of tradition 
only when by so doing it could secure the sur- 
vival of the fittest. Where the public taste was 
concerned his instinct seldom erred; he knew pre- 
cisely what his patrons wanted and how best to 
give it them. As impresario, manager, entrepre- 
neur, dramatist, librettist, and stage manager, all 
rolled into one, he was absolutely unique; and it 

426 



Musical Life in London 



may be taken for granted that we shall ' ne'er look 
upon his like again/ These words are as true 
to-day as they were when I wrote them nearly seven 
years ago. Sir Augustus Harris was buried at Ken- 
sal Green Cemetery, in the presence of an assem- 
blage numbering many thousands. The problem 
of carrying on his chief operatic concern was solved 
by the formation of the Covent Garden Syndicate, 
the capital for which was furnished by the leading 
subscribers. Of this body Earl de Grey and Mr. 
H. V. Higgins were appointed directors, while Mr. 
Maurice Grau undertook the duties of managing 
director, and Mr. Neil Forsyth those of secretary. 
Many other notable figures disappeared from the 
scene in this same year among them Mme. Clara 
Schumann, Sir Joseph Barnby, Ambroise Thomas, 
Frau Klaf sky, Italo Campanini, Henry Leslie, and 
Lewis Thomas, the Welsh basso. Of these the most 
interesting to the English musical community in 
general were the two talented choral conductors, 
Joseph Barnby and Henry Leslie, the former re- 
markable as a trainer of large vocal bodies, as that 
at the Albert Hall; the latter well known as the 
founder and leader of the Leslie Choir, probably 
the most wonderful embodiment of a perfect choral 
ensemble that London ever possessed, not except- 
ing even the Bach Choir in its best days. I knew 
both men well, but was more intimately acquainted 
with Sir Joseph Barnby, with whom, after he suc- 
ceeded Weist Hill as principal of the Guildhall 
School of Music, I was brought into almost daily 

429 



Thirty Years of 



association. It was a pity he ever went to that 
institution. The work killed him, even as the dis- 
appointment of failing to secure the appointment 
killed his rival candidate, Sir William Cusins. 

Barnby is now remembered more for his church 
music than for his deeds with the baton. Yet he 
told me once that his greatest ambition was to be 
an operatic conductor; and I quite believed that 
when he deprived me of my post as conductor of 
the opera class at the Guildhall School in order to 
fill it himself, though necessarily in perfunctory 
fashion, for he could not really spare the time. 
Well, I bore him no grudge on that account. We 
were the best of friends to the end; and when he 
died (January 28, 1896) I readily complied with 
Lady Barnby 's request to organize the arrange- 
ments for the funeral service, which was held in St. 
Paul's Cathedral. This I did in conjunction with 
my friend Mr. Alfred Littleton, and in order to ob- 
tain the requisite experience for directing so elabor- 
ate a function I attended the funeral of Lord Leigh- 
ton, who was buried in the cathedral on the previous 
day. The crowds were enormous, and the difficul- 
ties of the Barnby ceremony were increased in that, 
after the service at St. Paul's, the coffin had to be 
taken away for interment at Norwood Cemetery. 
Five years later I was called upon to perform a 
similar mournful duty in connection with the fu- 
neral of Sir Arthur Sullivan, who, like Lord Leigh- 
ton, was deemed worthy of a niche in the crypt of 
the cathedral. Neither light nor pleasant was the 

43 



Musical Life in London 

labor of arranging these solemn functions ; yet they 
will remain always among the proudest and most 
notable events of my life. 

I seldom attended the festivals of the Three 
Choirs. They rarely yielded music of an "epoch- 
making" character, and they always occurred at 
the beginning of September, just when I was enjoy- 
ing my hard-earned holiday. I was warned, how- 
ever, not to miss the Worcester Festival of 1896; 
and I am glad I did not. That was the meeting 
which lifted Edward Elgar out of his obscurity 
as a Malvern teacher and revealed him to his 
countrymen as a musician of high attainments and 
still higher promise. For once the "local man" 
turned out to be something better than your or- 
dinary writer of " Kapellmeistermusik " ; for once 
the dip in the local lottery-bag yielded a genuine 
prize. 

Edward Elgar produced at this festival a short 
oratorio entitled "The Light of Life," founded 
upon the miracle of the healing of the blind man, 
related in the ninth chapter of St. John. Its ori- 
ginality, the sense of proportion and tone-color dis- 
played in the choral and orchestral effects, the bold 
and masterful treatment of the leading themes, 
and the generally engrossing character of the mu- 
sic fairly took connoisseurs by surprise, and pre- 
pared them for the development which so rapidly 
placed Edward Elgar in the very forefront of con- 
temporary British composers. From "The Light 
of Life " to " The Dream of Gerontius ' ' represents 

43 1 



Thirty Years of 



an enormous stride, and every phase of the transi- 
tion is replete with interest. It would be hard to 
say in which direction orchestral or choral mu- 
sichis genius shows the more powerful bent. In 
both it seems to me that his individuality and im- 
aginative force are equally striking, his technical 
resources equally comprehensive ; and, at the same 
time, fully on a par with his gifts as a musician are 
his modest and unassuming yet sterling qualities 
as a man. 

One warm July night in 1896 I was present 
at a large musical party given by the late Mrs. 
Edward Goetz at her house in Hyde Park Ter- 
race. Always enjoyable were the entertainments 
of this liberal and sympathetic patroness of the art, 
who was a daughter of Mr. J. M. Levy, the founder 
of the "Daily Telegraph," and sister of Sir Ed- 
ward Lawson, the genial proprietor of that jour- 
nal. This, however, was a noteworthy occasion, 
since it brought to a first hearing a composition 
which was destined to win popularity in every land 
where English song flourishes I refer to Liza 
Lehmann's graceful and fascinating setting of 
lines from Omar Khayyam's "Rubaiyat" ("In a 
Persian Garden "). I shall not readily forget the 
mingled surprise and admiration awakened by the 
novel fragrance and charm of this music, remark- 
able at once for its sincerity of feeling and ex- 
pression and the subtle beauty of its harmonic 
structure. The solos were finely rendered by Al- 
bani, Hilda Wilson, Ben Davies, and David Bisp- 

432 



Musical Life in London 



ham; and the accompaniments were played by 
the composer, who, I may add, seemed to be not 
less astonished than delighted at the warmth of the 
compliments showered upon her. 

During the following December "In a Persian 
Garden " was sung, for the first time in public, at 
one of the Popular Concerts, and with extraor- 
dinary success. Apart from its intrinsic worth, the 
new song-cycle was especially welcome to an au- 
dience that had long counted Liza Lehmann the 
vocalist among its particular favorites. In that 
capacity, indeed, the fair musician was just bidding 
farewell to the concert platform and creating a 
vacancy that might have remained long unfilled 
but for the timely debut of Blanche Marchesi, the 
accomplished daughter of the famous Paris teacher. 
Very different in type were these two singers, nor 
can it be gainsaid that the art of Blanche Marchesi 
covers a wider intellectual grasp, a broader range 
of color, a greater depth of dramatic intensity than 
that which distinguished the English soprano. 
Yet both must be given a conspicuous place in the 
group of artists whose talent helped at this time 
to keep alive the fading glories of the "Pops." 
For, alas ! the closing years of the nineteenth cen- 
tury were to witness a sad deterioration in the 
quality of these renowned concerts. The secession 
of Joachim and the death of Piatti eliminated the 
last links that held intact the chain of the old 
subscribers. The support fell away, and with the 
resignation of Arthur Chappell the institution 

435 



Thirty Years of 



finally lost the prestige and the value that had 
earned it renown for a period of over forty years. 

Among the remarkable old men of music whose 
light died out with the expiring months of the last 
century was my dear friend Charles Kensington 
Salaman. His active labors as composer and 
teacher had long ceased; but his brain was ever 
alert and ever busy amid his storehouse of mem- 
ories of a bygone age. He could tell of a visit to 
the famous singer Catalani (heard for the last time 
in England at the York Festival in 1828), and he 
could describe the sensations with which he had 
played duets with Liszt when the Weimar pianist 
first came to London as a boy of eleven. It was a 
rare pleasure to listen to Charles Salaman ? s anec- 
dotes ; to sit by him as he played with still wonder- 
ful facility and grace some quaint old show-piece ; 
or to sing while he accompanied some such exqui- 
site lyric as his lovely setting of Shelley's "I arise 
from dreams of thee." It was his habit always 
to celebrate his birthday by composing a new song 
to lines specially written by his son Malcolm, and 
not the least charming of these efforts was the 
"Love Song" which commemorated his eightieth 
birthday on March 3, 1894. He was visited on these 
occasions by some of the foremost musical and the- 
atrical celebrities in the metropolis. But after 
keeping up the charter another two or three years 
his health gradually failed and he died amid uni- 
versal regrets. 

In the spring of 1897 Giacomo Puccini paid his 

43 6 



Musical Life in London 



second visit to England, to superintend the produc- 
tion of his opera "La Boheme" by the Carl Kosa 
company at Manchester. The young Italian com- 
poser had achieved only a moderate success with 
his "Man on Lescaut" at Covent Garden three 
years before, and was anxious to add to his laurels. 
On joining him at Manchester the afternoon of 
the premiere, I found him in very low spirits. He 
was not satisfied with the Carl Rosa artists, and 
fully anticipated a fiasco for the English represen- 
tation of "La Boheme." I assured him 'that Carl 
Eosa singers (as distinguished from Carl Rosa 
' * directors ' ') did not know the meaning of the word 
"fail"; the intelligence and ensemble of the com- 
pany were bound to pull him through. And so it 
proved. Deficient as it was in many respects, there 
was, nevertheless, so much spirit and animation 
about the performance, such a flavor of Bohemian 
jollity, that the opera instantly won the favor of 
the Lancashire audience and paved the way for 
its subsequent London success. 1 

With the Covent Garden season of 1897 the work 
of the new regime fairly began. Mr. Maurice Grau 
made his entry upon the scene, nominally as the 
successor to Sir Augustus Harris ; and he paid that 
impresario the highest compliment in his power 

1 The cast was as follows : Eudolph, Mr. Eobert Cunningham ; 
Marcel, Mr. William Paull; Colline, Mr. A. S. Winckworth; 
Schaunard, Mr. C. Tilbury; Benoit, Mr. Homer Lind; Mitsetta, 
Miss Bessie MacDonald; and Mimi, Miss Alice Esty. Mr. Claude 
Jaquinot conducted, and Mr. T. H. Friend was the stage manager. 

437 



Thirty Years of 



by frankly pursuing the lines that had marked the 
previous managerial policy of the establishment. 
Not a single innovation worthy of the name had to 
be recorded. As in America, so in London, Mr. 
Grau found that it would be impossible for him 
to do better at the head of a big operatic concern 
than steer the exact course that had been followed 
during the preceding decade by Augustus Harris. 
The usual sixty-seven performances were given, 
and altogether eighteen operas were mounted; no 
fewer than half of these were sung in French. The 
novelties were "Der Evangelimann, ' ' a sentimen- 
tal work by Wilhelm Kienzl, in which the tenor 
Van Dyck scored a great success; and "Inez 
Mendo," a meritorious opera from the pen of Fre- 
deric d'Erlanger, wherein Mme. Frances Saville, 
a new soprano, and M. Eenaud, the barytone from 
the Paris Opera, sustained the principal parts. 
Other debutants of the season were Miss Susan 
Strong, Mile. Pacary, Fraulein Sedlmair, Andreas 
Dippel, Salignac, Marcel Journet, Fugere, Lem- 
priere Pringle, and Thomas Meux. 

The brunt of more than two months' hard work 
was borne by Jean and Edouard de Reszke, toge- 
ther with Mme. Emma Eames and David Bispham, 
gifted American artists who notably strengthened 
their London reputations in the course of this sea- 
son. Mme. Melba appeared in a round of familiar 
impersonations, while the sterling qualities of MM. 
Alvarez and Planc,on now began to earn for those 
singers a wider circle of admirers. From the be- 

438 




Copyright by A. Dupont, N. T. 



SCHUMANN-HEINK 
AS ORTRUD 



Musical Life in London 



ginning of the season until the enti of June the 
German operas were conducted by the late Anton 
Seidl, and the memory of this, his last appearance 
at Covent Garden, is associated with some exceed- 
ingly fine performances. 

Among the visitors to London during the latter 
part of the year were Edvard Grieg and his wife, 
and the clever composer of "Hansel und Gretel," 
Engelbert Humperdinck. The former appeared at 
the Popular and other concerts, beside paying a 
visit to the Queen at Windsor ; while Humperdinck 
made his debut, under the auspices of the Philhar- 
monic Society, at the last of an autumn series of 
concerts and conducted some excerpts from his 
operas with signal success. Yet another distin- 
guished composer, Moritz Moskowski, appeared at 
the Philharmonic during the same series, after an 
absence from London of over eleven years. He 
brought nothing new, but conducted with much 
spirit his violin concerto (played by M. Gregoro- 
witsch) and three movements from his opera "Bo- 
abdil ' ' ; a contralto air, also from the latter work, 
was rendered by Mile. Olitzka. 

The debut of a son-in-law of Queen Victoria in 
the capacity of operatic librettist was an interest- 
ing feature of the Carl Rosa season held at Covent 
Garden during the autumn of 1897, the year of 
Her Majesty 's ' ' Diamond Jubilee. ' ' Twenty years 
previous a cousin of the Queen, the then reigning 
Grand Duke Ernest of Saxe Coburg-Gotha, had 
figured upon the same scene as the composer of an 

441 



Thirty Years of 



opera called " Santa Chiara." In the present in- 
stance it was the Marquis of Lome (now the Duke 
of Argyll), husband of that amiable and accom- 
plished lady, the Princess Louise, who was respon- 
sible for the text of Hamish MacCunn's romantic 
opera "Diarmid"; and such was the striking all- 
round merit of this work that, but for the weak- 
ness of the denouement and an unfortunate resem- 
blance to the plot of "Tristan und Isolde, " which 
evoked inevitable comparisons, it might have 
earned enduring success. As it was, I fancy the 
Marquis derived his principal reward from the 
amusement of attending the rehearsals, which he 
did regularly, in company with the Princess, who 
would watch the proceedings from the corner of a 
private box. 

The Queen 's love of music was at no period more 
strongly evinced than during the last few years of 
her life. She turned to it for solace and comfort 
in her old age, and derived the keenest pleasure 
from the performances of the various artists who 
were invited in quick succession to labor for her 
enjoyment. Her devoted daughters, Princess 
Christian and Princess Henry of Battenberg, were 
ever on the alert to procure talent for this purpose ; 
scarcely a week passed but that some artist of note 
played or sang in the royal drawing-rooms at 
Windsor, Osborne, or Balmoral. Lengthy, indeed, 
must be the list of those, from the diva downward, 
who can point with pride to their jeweled brooch 
or pin bearing the familiar monogram ' ' Y. R. I. ' ' ; 

442 



Musical Life in London 



while many, too, can display even costlier gifts 
that were received, after repeated visits, as tokens 
of Her Majesty's grateful appreciation. A select 
few had bestowed upon them the insignia of the 
Royal Victoria Order ; and the first musician to be 
thus honored, after Sir Arthur Sullivan and Signor 
Tosti, was M. Jean de Reszke, who received the 
cross of the "R. V. 0." (fourth class) after a 
performance of " Lohengrin " at Windsor Castle 
on the Queen's eightieth birthday, May 24, 1899. 
His brother was similarly decorated fourteen 
months later, after a representation of i ' Faust " 
the last occasion on which Queen Victoria ever lis- 
tened to an opera. 

The birthday celebration was marked by one or 
two curious incidents. To begin with, only the first 
and third acts of "Lohengrin" could be given. 
There was hardly time to include the second, as 
these royal functions do not commence until nearly 
ten o 'clock at night. The plot, however, was fully 
explained to the Queen, who had never heard Wag- 
ner 's opera, and the temptation of Elsa (Mme. Nor- 
dica) by the perfidious Ortrud (Mme. Schumann- 
Heink) and her spouse (David Bispham) was 
easily 1 1 taken as read. ' ' Mancinelli conducted, and 
everything went capitally until the fall of the cur- 
tain. Her Majesty then retired to one of the draw- 
ing-rooms and requested that the principal artists 
be presented to her, together with Mr. Maurice 
Grau as managing director of the Royal Opera. 

The awful discovery was then made that neither 

443 



Thirty Years of 



Jean nor Edouard de Keszke had with him any but 
the operatic garments in which they stood. It was 
the first time that the brothers had ever appeared 
in opera before the Queen, and, not knowing that 
it was usual to don evening dress for the subsequent 
presentation, they had clothed themselves as Lo- 
hengrin and Heinrich der Vogler before leaving 
London, and had traveled to Windsor in dark 
cloaks of sufficient amplitude to conceal themselves 
from the gaze of an inquisitive Cockney crowd. 
The situation was duly explained to Her Majesty, 
who laughingly declared that it did not matter in 
the least ; for once court etiquette should be disre- 
garded, and the two artists brought before her in 
their picturesque stage attire. The command was 
forthwith obeyed, and the Queen, in course of con- 
versation with the brothers, ' ' expressed the delight 
that it had afforded her at last to hear them in 
opera and listen to the beautiful music of Wagner's 
work. ' ' 

Queen Victoria never heard Jean de Reszke 
again. In the summer of 1900, when ' ' Faust ' ' was 
given at Windsor, he was not well enough to sing, 
and a substitute was forthcoming in the new French 
tenor Saleza. I accompanied Edouard de Eeszke 
to the castle and was present at the performance. 
The Marguerite was that sympathetic artist Mme. 
Suzanne Adams, to whom, afterward, Her Majesty 
personally handed a handsome sapphire and dia- 
mond bracelet. Philippe Flon was the conductor, 
and the cast further included Mile. Bauermeister, 

444 



Musical Life in London 



Mile. Maubourg, and M. Declery, with M. Almanz 
as regisseur. The remarkable feature of that even- 
ing was the mental and physical endurance shown 
by the aged sovereign, who was now so near to the 
close of her august career. It was a hot, sultry 
July night, and although several cuts were made, 
the opera was not over until nearly twelve o 'clock. 
From the beginning to the end the Queen remained 
deeply interested, and never stirred from her chair 
upon the dais. It was only as she walked down the 
inclined gangway, passing within a yard of where 
I stood, and leaning heavily upon the arm of her 
Indian attendant, that I perceived how intensely 
fatigued Her Majesty was. Her face bore a look 
of exhaustion that indicated actual suffering. Yet 
there was no suggestion of dispensing with the cus- 
tomary reception. From the door of the Waterloo 
Chamber the Queen's chair was wheeled through 
St. George's Hall to the Green Drawing-room, 
and quite forty minutes more must have elapsed 
ere the ceremony of receiving the artists and giv- 
ing them their presents was over. Whether work 
or pleasure was involved, Victoria the Good never 
sought to spare herself in the rendering of those 
courtesies which she thought she owed to others. 
It was just six months after witnessing this 
"Faust" performance that Her Majesty breathed 
her last at Osborne House. 



447 



CHAPTER XIX 

Operatic retrogression The seasons of 1898, 1899, and 1900 
Purchase of the Covent Garden lease The "Perosi craze" 
Final remarks on the Harris regime Death of Sims Reeves 
Edward Lloyd's retirement English singers and English 
festivals : a concluding retrospect 

EVERY period of change and reform gives 
place to a corresponding spell of plodding, 
mechanical labor upon the lines that public appre- 
ciation has indorsed. By comparison with the 
decade extending from 1887 to 1897, the story of 
operatic progress during the succeeding five years 
is dull and uninteresting. That is an excellent rea- 
son for treating it with brevity, if not, indeed, for 
bringing it to a conclusion, as far as these pages are 
concerned, with all convenient speed. The spirit of 
innovation died when Sir Augustus Harris "shuf- 
fled off this mortal [operatic] coil.' 7 The tempo- 
rary association of Mr. Maurice Grau with the man- 
agement of Covent Garden only tended to crystal- 
lize the identical systems of supply and demand 
which had already distinguished the leading lyric 
theatres of London and New York. The dead im- 
presario 's successors contented themselves with a 
mild imitation of the Harris policy, plus a cred- 
itable endeavor to ameliorate the materiel they 

448 



Musical Life in London 



could not well improve the personnel of their es- 
tablishment. Beyond that, there has been neither 
initial energy nor imagination to widen the scope 
and elevate the character of this important enter- 
prise. 

The last two or three seasons of the nineteenth 
century may be very briefly dismissed. In 1898 
the novelties at Covent Garden were Saint-Saens 's 
1 ' Henry VIII ' ' and Mancinelli 's ' ' Ero e Leandro. ' ' 
In the former, Mme. Heglon made her debut as 
Anne Boleyn, and M. Eenaud gave an extremely 
picturesque embodiment of "bluff King Hal" as 
viewed through a pair of French pince-nez. The 
chief parts in Mancinelli 's opera 1 were created by 
Eames, Schumann-Heink, Saleza, and Plangon. 
Another noteworthy feature was the revival of 
"Der Ring des Nibelungen" under Felix Mottl. 
In this Jean de Reszke made his first appearance 
in the role of Siegfried, and a splendid series of 
casts included, among others, Nordica, Ternina, 
Eames, Schumann-Heink, Marie Brema, Von Art- 
ner, Meisslinger, Van Dyck, Dippel, Van Kooy, and 
Edouard de Eeszke. The general troupe further 
comprised Melba, Calve, Zelie de Lussan, Frances 
Saville, Suzanne Adams, Saleza, and Campanari, 
of whom the last three then sang in London for the 
first time. The success of the young American de- 
butante, who subsequently became the wife of Mr. 
Leo Stern, the violoncellist, was especially marked. 

1 Originally produced as a cantata at the Norwich 
Festival of 1896. 

449 



Thirty Years of 



The profits in 1898 and 1899 were larger than 
during any like period since the operatic renais- 
sance began ; but from an artistic standpoint prog- 
ress was no longer reflected in the deeds of the 
Covent Garden management. The season of 1899 
yielded but a single novelty, namely, Isidore de 
Lara's ' * Messaline. ' ' True, this was the work of 
an Englishman ; but it was composed to a French 
libretto and performed by French artists, and it 
owed its hearing exclusively to foreign influence. 
Its success, despite the glamour of its picturesque 
Roman setting, and notwithstanding the art of 
Heglon, Alvarez, and Benaud, must perforce be 
described as equivocal. The story at best is re- 
volting ; and the music combines with a few fine mo- 
ments many dull quarts d'heure. Wagner again 
played a prominent part, his works furnishing just 
one third of the seventy-one representations that 
made up the season. These were directed, with two 
exceptions, by Dr. Muck, one of the conductors of 
the Berlin Hof-Oper. Conspicuous therein were 
some magnificent impersonations by Mme. Lilli 
Lehmann, who had not been heard in London for 
many years, and by Mme. Gadski, who now made 
her debut at Covent Garden and at once earned 
the favor due to an artist of rare vocal and his- 
trionic attainments. Of the other new-comers 
neither Mile. Lucienne Breval nor Mile. Litvinne 
did herself complete justice ; but Mme. Louise Ho- 
mer created a satisfactory impression, and a posi- 

45 




Copyright by A. Dupont, N. Y. 

LILLI LEHMANN 

AS ISOLDE 



Musical Life in London 



tive hit was scored by Signer Scotti, one of the 
most versatile and accomplished barytones that 
Italy has sent forth in recent years. Jean de 
Reszke sang only nine nights and was then com- 
pelled by illness to seek rest ; in the following win- 
ter, however, he was singing in America with all 
his wonted vigor and charm. 

Early in 1899 the inheritor of the Covent Gar- 
den lease, Mr. G. F. Faber, disposed of the theatre 
to the Grand Opera Syndicate, for the remainder 
of his term, for the sum of 110,000. This de- 
sirable consummation, which was brought about 
through the efforts of Mr. Alfred de Rothschild, 
had the effect of placing the entire concern upon a 
sound and solid footing. The syndicate was formed 
into a limited liability company, the list of share- 
holders being headed by the Prince of Wales (now 
King Edward VII) and composed very largely of 
the opera subscribers, who thus became directly in- 
terested in the financial prosperity of the general 
undertaking. The direction of the company re- 
mained in the same hands, but Mr. Grau did not 
long continue the heavy labors involved in his 
double impresarioship. Another couple of years 
of fruitful toil, and then he relinquished his Lon- 
don duties altogether, so far as opera was con- 
cerned, thenceforth devoting himself with in- 
creased energy to the sister enterprise in New York. 
He was succeeded as artistic director at Covent 
Garden by M. Andre Messager, the composer of 

453 



Thirty Years of 



"La Basoche" and other works, whose experience 
as conductor and joint manager of the Paris Opera- 
Comique eminently fitted him for the post. 

This same year, by the way, witnessed the brief 
"Perosi craze." How that purely artificial vogue 
ever came to extend beyond the walls of the Italian 
churches no one knows. At least it should have 
stopped short at Paris, which was as far as the 
youthful abbe himself contrived to get on his road 
to London. But for a time the " craze " raged in 
England with the virulence of an epidemic, and 
many sane musicians persuaded themselves that 
the new oratorio composer was a genius of the first 
magnitude. His i t Transfiguration, ' ' his "Raising 
of Lazarus," and his "Resurrection of Christ" 
were all performed at the London Musical Festi- 
val which Robert Newman started at Queen's Hall 
in May; while his "Passion of Christ" was given 
at the Norwich Festival in the autumn. In each 
instance, however, there was felt a keen sense of 
disappointment. At best Perosi 's works could ap- 
peal only to the ear amid ecclesiastical surround- 
ings, and even there their woeful lack of originality 
was bound to irritate the critical listener. Far more 
interesting as choral events were the first per- 
formances in England (at the Gloucester Festival) 
of Professor Horatio Parker's "Hora Novissima" ; 
the revival (at Albert Hall) of Wagner's scriptural 
scene for male voices and orchestra, "The Last 
Supper of the Apostles"; and the restoration, by 
the Royal Choral Society under Sir Frederick 

454 



Musical Life in London 



Bridge, of the original accompaniments to Han- 
del's " Messiah. " 

The opera season of 1900, the last touched upon 
in this chronicle, offered to a contented public prac- 
tically the same company, the same repertory, the 
same familiar commingling of brilliant individual 
efforts and unsurpassable artistic resources, toge- 
ther, alas! with a growing roughness of ensemble 
and a lamentable mediocrity of mise en scene. It 
was the last London opera season in which Jean 
de Reszke had thus far taken part ; and even that 
appearance was attended by a "partial eclipse," 
the climate of the British metropolis once more 
proving so seriously detrimental to the vocal or- 
gans of the famous tenor that he was unable to com- 
plete his engagement. Two cycles of the "Ring" 
were given, and among the new members of the cast 
were Frau Gulbranson, Miss Edyth Walker, Frau- 
lein Hieser, Herr Ernst Kraus, Herr Briesemeister, 
Herr Slezak, Herr Bertram, and Herr Klopf er. In 
the direction of the German operas, Felix Mottl 
was assisted by that admirable conductor Emil 
Paur, who made a highly satisfactory impression. 
Distinct hits were achieved also by the clever young 
light soprano, Fraulein Fritzi Scheff; by Signor 
Bonci, a sympathetic Italian tenor of the old school ; 
and by Mr. Blass, an American basso of German 
parentage and training. 

Puccini's "Tosca" was the solitary new opera 
produced in 1900, and, thanks to the genius of 
Fraulein Ternina, its many beauties were at once 

455 



Thirty Years of 



made patent to all who were willing to perceive 
them. That artist's superb assumption of Fiona 
Tosca, coming as it did on top of a series of tri- 
umphs in such roles as Brunnhilde, Sieglinde, Elsa, 
Elisabeth, and Leonora, was but another revela- 
tion of her versatility and of her vocal and his- 
trionic charm. This was Ternina's first essay as 
the heroine of Puccini's picturesque work, and she 
received excellent support from De Lucia as Pietro 
Cavaradossi, and from Scotti as Scarpia this last 
a creation which has won universal recognition as 
an ideal presentment of one of the most subtle and 
malevolent figures in modern opera. Altogether it 
was a splendid performance, and Luigi Mancinelli 
conducted it in his most masterly manner. In the 
German operas the increasing success of Mme. 
Gadski became conspicuously characteristic; while 
Mme. Melba extended her repertory with a piquant 
impersonation of Rosina in "II Barbiere." Mme. 
Calve was content to travel within the limited cir- 
cle of her old round of parts. 

The following table indicates roughly the extent 
of the work accomplished during the regular Lon- 
don season, by the late Sir Augustus Harris and 
his successors, during the thirteen years that came 
after the tentative Drury Lane season of 1887 : 

Weeks Operas Representations 

1888 10 19 48 

1889 10 16 53 

1890 10 18 60 

1891 16 20 94 

456 




H o i 
H a >> 



OS .1 

<j o. 




5s- 

:i 

* s 
S 



Musical Life in London 



1892 


Weeks 
10 


Operas ] 

25 


Representations 

88 


1893 


11 


25 


89 


1894 


11 


27 


92 


1895 


. ... 11 


25 


77 


1896 


.... 11 


23 


67 


1897 


. ... 11 


18 


67 


1898 


, ... 11 


24 


67 


1899 


11 


22 


71 


1900.. 


. 11 


21 


67 



A casual glance at these figures will suffice to 
show how curiously in the nature of an "are" are 
the rise and fall in the labor and energy which 
evolved them. In 1894, exactly half way between 
1888 and 1900, was reached the high- water mark 
of activity under the Harris regime. I disregard 
the sudden "bulge" of 1891, because in that year 
the season was unduly extended, and there were 
then but twenty operas in the repertory. Three 
years later it attained the remarkable total of 
twenty-seven operas, an achievement never even 
equaled, much less surpassed, in subsequent sea- 
sons. But it is not altogether by aggregate re- 
sults that the value of Augustus Harris's operatic 
work can be reckoned ; it lies in the fact that opera, 
both in London and in New York, is to-day a living 
thing a prosperous, not a "moribund" institu- 
tion. Nay, more: instead of being the "Italian 
Opera" of our fathers, with all its miserable limi- 
tations and inartistic conventionalities, it is an 
opera that combines the three great schools of the 

459 



Thirty Years of 



art in one organization, and presents their master- 
pieces in the languages in which they were written. 
To render the system perfect it needs to be less 
wholly dependent upon the social equation; but 
that desirable result never will be accomplished^ 
either in England or in America, until opera has 
been released from the shackles of the foreign 
tongue and driven right home to the hearts of the 
people through the medium of their own good 
Anglo-Saxon vernacular. 

Strange was it that the closing weeks of the cen- 
tury were to see the English concert-room de- 
prived of its two greatest tenors. In October, 1900, 
Sims Eeeves died at the ripe old age of eighty-two ; 
two months later Edward Lloyd went into retire- 
ment after giving a memorable farewell concert at 
the Eoyal Albert Hall. It may not be uninteresting 
to compare these two supreme artists. In many 
ways, notably as to character of voice and method, 
they were as unlike as two singers could be; but 
each in his own fashion exemplified the purest at- 
tributes of the bel canto and upheld the best tra- 
ditions of the British oratorio school. Sims Eeeves 
in the original instance was an opera-singer. I 
once heard him in opera, but he was then nearly 
sixty, and had long abandoned his stage career. I 
first heard him sing at the Norwich Festival of 
1866, when he took part in Costa 's oratorio "Naa- 
man." His voice was then still in its prime. A 
more exquisite illustration of what is termed the 
true Italian tenor quality it would be impossible to 

460 



Musical Life in London 



imagine; and this delicious sweetness, this rare 
combination of "velvety" richness with ringing 
timbre, he retained in diminishing volume almost 
to the last. 

It is probable that Sims Beeves lost more money 
through unfulfilled engagements than any other 
singer that ever lived. He himself computed the 
total amount thus eliminated from his banking ac- 
count, during a career of half a century, at 80,000 
($400,000). An eighth of this sum would have 
sufficed to spare him the rigid economy and the 
necessity for music-hall work which marred the 
closing years of his existence. In the early "nine- 
ties ' ' he took up teaching and accepted a professor- 
ship at the Guildhall School, where we frequently 
came in contact. I asked him once whether there 
had always been good and sufficient cause for his 
disappointing the public so frequently. 

"Well, perhaps not always," replied the veteran 
tenor. "That is to say, I have no doubt it would 
have been possible very often for me to have sung, 
if I had made the effort. But the very fact that it 
would have required an effort was enough to pre- 
vent me from trying. You see, my throat has al- 
ways been delicate, and at the slightest sign of 
hoarseness I have been afraid to sing, lest I should 
impose a strain upon my vocal cords. If I had not 
been so careful, who knows but that my voice would 
have given out long ago, instead of being as fresh 
and strong to-day as at any time these twenty 
years I ' ' That may have been absolutely true. As 

461 



Thirty Years of 



it was, Sims Reeves was unquestionably the best- 
preserved male singer of his time. To hear him, 
long after he had passed the age of seventy, sing 
" Adelaide" or "Deeper and deeper still" or "The 
Message" was an exposition of breath control, of 
tone-coloring, of phrasing and expression, that 
may truly be described as unique. 

Edward Lloyd, both as a man and a singer, was 
of quite a different calibre. Hardy of constitu- 
tion, fond of exercise and open-air sports, the 
possessor of a strong, healthy throat, it was the 
rarest imaginable occurrence for him to be com- 
pelled to forego an engagement in consequence of 
indisposition. Moreover, he had no weakness for 
luxuries, and never spent his money extravagantly. 
On the contrary, he knew how to save it and how to 
invest it to good advantage. Therefore it came 
about that, after a public career of some thirty 
years, Edward Lloyd was in a position to indulge 
his longing for otium cum dignitate; and when he 
retired from active service, in the plenitude of his 
vocal powers, he was a tolerably wealthy man 
though, truth to tell, that farewell came all too 
soon for the liking of the British public. There 
was no one to take Lloyd's place, and even now 
it remains practically unfilled. Ben Davies has 
in his voice some notes of beautiful quality, and 
he is an artist of undoubted taste and distinction. 
Nevertheless, to place him wholly upon the same 
artistic level with his gifted predecessor might be 
to imitate the Player Queen in "Hamlet" and 
"protest too much." 

462 




Copyright, 1897, by Wm. Kuebler. Jr. 

GADSKI 

AS ELISABETH 



Musical Life in London 



As these lines are penned Edward Lloyd is con- 
templating a farewell tour of the world ; so, happily, 
there is no necessity yet to speak of him altogether 
in the past tense. He has promised, too, from 
time to time to reappear in the concert-room in 
England, as compliment or charity may demand. 
Edward Lloyd's is one of those pure, natural 
voices that never lose their sweetness, but preserve 
their charm so long as there are breath and power 
to sustain them. His method is, to my thinking, 
irreproachable and his style absolutely inimitable. 
His versatility was greater than that of Sims 
Beeves, even though he was never a stage tenor; 
for he was equally at home in music of every period 
and of every school. In Bach and Handel, in 
modern oratorio, in the Italian aria, in Lied, ro- 
mance, or ballad, he was equally capable of arous- 
ing genuine admiration; and, when he had fin- 
ished with all of these, he could declaim Wagner 
with a beauty of tone, a fullness of dramatic expres- 
sion, and a clarity of enunciation that used to make 
his German audiences in London shout for very 
wonder and delight. Hans Kichter was wont to de- 
clare that Edward Lloyd was the first tenor to 
bring out in all its fascinating loveliness the exqui- 
site vocal charm of the i ' Preislied. ' ' That thought 
occurred to me when he was singing it at his fare- 
well concert at the Albert Hall in December, 1900 ; 
and I was fain to admit that upon the operatic 
boards only Jean de lieszke had accomplished with 
this inspired melody what Edward Lloyd had done 
with it upon the concert platform. 

465 



Thirty Years of 



Another great English singer who yet lingers 
upon the field of his former successes is Charles 
Santley. For his years, his voice is wonderfully 
preserved, and no "old man eloquent" could throw 
into his efforts a more remarkable measure of en- 
ergy, vigor, and feeling. Like Reeves, he made his 
name first as an opera-singer ; there are many still 
living who, like myself, entertain a vivid recol- 
lection of his sympathetic and dramatic delineation 
of Valentine in " Faust " and the Conte di Luna 
in "II Trovatore" years before the appearance 
with the Carl Rosa Company to which allusion has 
already been made in these pages. But of late 
years the voice has lost its haunting beauty of 
timbre, and the charm of Santley's singing, save 
that which survives in his perfect phrasing, is 
no longer aught but a memory. 

England's leading vocalists, at the dawn of the 
twentieth century, comprised many artists of genu- 
ine excellence. The time when there were "giants 
in the land" might be past and gone; the advent 
of a great English soprano might seem as far off 
as ever. But the average singing heard in the con- 
cert-room was often distinguished by fine musical 
feeling and intelligence. A busy career of nearly 
thirty years had not yet made serious inroads on 
the thrilling tones of Emma Albani. The ' ' Queen 
of the British Musical Festival" was still the most 
reliable and conscientious of interpreters, the most 
industrious of artists. Marguerite Macintyre, de- 
spite her stronger penchant for opera, was never- 

466 



Musical Life in London 



theless best known to her home public as a concert 
soprano; and the same statement applies with 
equal appropriateness to Ella Russell, who, 
American by birth, English by adoption, and Ital- 
ian by marriage, was the dramatic soprano par 
excellence of the concert platform, a singer always 
sincere, thorough, and convincing in her work. An- 
other acclimatized American of tried ability alike 
in opera- and concert-work was Lucile Hill ; while 
yet another (who, however, had not yet trodden the 
lyric boards) was Lillian Blauvelt, a refined and 
highly cultivated singer with talents equally ap- 
preciated on both sides of the Atlantic. 

But where, among the leading women singers, 
were the English-born artists? To find them one 
had to turn to the contraltos to Clara Butt, with 
her glorious wealth of tone and Gallic grace of 
delivery; to Marie Brema (who, however, would 
be more correctly classified as a mezzo-soprano), 
with her admirable command of tone-color, her 
faultless diction, her infinitely varied shades of 
impassioned poetic expression; and to Kirkby 
Lunn, with her warm, rich notes of true contralto 
quality, a singer full of talent and an observant, 
persevering artist. The foremost contralto group 
would not be complete, however, without the name 
of the talented Australian, Ada Crossley, whose 
popularity, rapidly and surely earned, was due 
almost as much to winning charm of style as to 
sheer force of tonal beauty. 

The mantle of Braham and Sims Eeeves, as 

467 



Thirty Years of 



worthily borne by Edward Lloyd, was resting more 
or less easily upon the shoulders of Ben Davies, 
a singer whose rare musical instinct and intelli- 
gence have always partially atoned for his uneven 
scale and his lack of ringing head-notes. Among 
the tenors who had made their mark, Joseph 
'Mara must not be forgotten, nor William Green, 
the somewhat Italian quality of whose organ gave 
promise of rich development with greater freedom 
of emission and growth of temperament. At the 
head of the barytones stood Andrew Black, one 
of the best male singers that Scotland has ever 
produced, the possessor of a superbly resonant 
voice, and notably impressive in music calling for 
pathetic sentiment and declamatory vigor. Artistic 
singers were Kennerley Rumford and Denham 
Price, while as a "safe" oratorio bass Watkin 
Mills fully deserved his position. To complete the 
list there only remains to mention Plunket Greene, 
who, had his vocal attributes only been on a par 
with his interpretative powers, might fairly have 
been described as one of the finest concert vocalists 
of his time. 

And so I conclude these recollections, as I began 
them, with reflections upon English Festival ar- 
tists and English Festival singing. The festival, 
indeed, lives and flourishes, and remains perhaps 
the most characteristic feature of musical progress 
in the United Kingdom. It is the institution which 
continues to compare most favorably with what 
it was at the beginning of the thirty years traversed 

468 



Musical Life in London 



by these pages. There were greater singers in the 
" seventies " greater, maybe, than ever will be 
heard at a festival again. On the other hand, there 
were not then finer choirs than can be heard to-day 
at Leeds, Birmingham, Norwich, and Sheffield ; nor 
were there splendid orchestras available then, as 
now, for the adequate rendering of something more 
than choral accompaniments and easy symphonies 
by Haydn or Mozart. Moreover, thanks to superior 
executive means and a higher order of musical ap- 
preciation, there has been a manifest improvement 
in the tone of festival programmes. A spirit of 
eclecticism dominates the choice of works and re- 
flects a catholicity of taste that nowhere could be 
surpassed. Indeed, as regards the future of the 
art in England, it is the great provincial centres 
that display the promise to be sought for in vain 
amid the invertebrate elements which constitute 
musical life in the huge, overgrown metropolis of 
the British Empire. 



47 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Abbey, Henry, 284; 356 

Adams, Suzanne, at Windsor Castle, 
444; debut at Covent Garden, 449 

Agnesi, 25 

Albani, Emma, as Elsa, 44; in Gounod's 
"Redemption," 132; in Sullivan's 
"Golden Legend," 197; at Covent 
Garden (1888), 237 ; at Windsor Castle, 
278 ; with Abbey troupe in America, 
284; as Elizabeth, 292; see also 186; 
277; 353; 413; 414; 425; 432; 466 

Albeniz, L, operas "The Magic Opal" 
and " Pepita Jimenez " produced, 377 

Albers, 425 

Alboni, Marietta, last visit to London, 
27 ; heard at a private concert, 28 

Alexandra, Her Majesty Queen, 112 

Almanz, 447 

Alvarez, 391; 401; 413; 425; 438; 450 

Alvary, Max, 250; debut at Covent 
Garden, 366 ; see also 392 ; 401 

Ancona, Mario, debut in London, 343 ; 
see also 378; 386; 392; 401 

Arditi, Luigi, 43 ; introduces Wagner's 
" Trauermarsch, " 57; at Craig-y-nos 
Castle, 309; with Patti in America, 
359; see also 355 

Arnoldson, Sigrid, d6but at Drury 
Lane (1887), 223; at Covent Garden 
(1888), 237; in Massenet's "Werther," 
361 ; see also 245 

Artner, Frl. von, 449 

Bach, Emil, 160; opera "Irmengarda" 

produced, 391; opera "The Lady of 

Longford ' ' produced, 401 
Bach, Sebastian, Mass in B minor at 

St. James's Hall, 9; at Leeds Festival, 

197 
Bache, Walter, 177 ; reception to Franz 

Liszt, 183 



Bagagiolo, 158 
Barnby, 



Sir Joseph, 65; conducts 
Parsifal" at Albert HaU, 189; at 

Paderewski dinner, 300; death, 429; 

funeral service at St. Paul's Cathe- 

dral, 430 ; see also 283 
Battenberg, Prince Henry of, 317 
Battenberg, Princess Henry of, 386 ; 442 
Battistini, 219; debut at Drury Lane 

(1887), 223 
Bauermeister, Mathilde, at Windsor 

Castle, 444 ; see also 277 ; 353 
Beckett, Gilbert a, 401 
Beeth, Lola, 425 



Behrens, 102 

Bellincioni, Sisters, 280; 383; Gemma 
B. at Covent Garden, 414 

Bemberg, H., opera " Elaine " at Covent 
Garden, 369 

Benedict, Sir Julius, conductor of the 
Norwich Festival, 13 ; his meeting 
with Beethoven, 14; accompanied 
Jenny Lind to United States, 15 ; ill- 
ness and death, 16 

Bennett, Joseph, libretto of "Thor- 
grim," 285; libretto of "Jeanie 
Deans, "402; see also 44; 108; 196 

Benoit, Peter, oratorio "Lucifer" at 
Albert HaU, 283 

Beresford, Lady Charles, 234 ; 235 

Bernhardt, Sarah, 26 

Bertram, debut at Covent Garden, 455 

Bettaque, Frl., 250; debut at Covent 
Garden, 369 

Bettini, 25 

Bevignani, E., 160; 186; 280; 289; 391 

Bispham, David, d6but in "La 
Basoche," 338; at Windsor Castle, 
443 ; see also 386 ; 414 ; 432 ; 438 

Bizet, Georges, production of "Car- 
men" at Her Majesty's, 84; "Pech- 
eurs de Perles" at Covent Garden, 
271 ; "Carmen " in French, 288 

Black, Andrew, 468 

Blass, debut at Covent Garden, 455 

Blauvelt, Lillian, 467 

Boi'to, Arrigo, production of " Mefis- 
tofele" at Her Majesty's, 152; re- 
vival at Covent Garden (1888), 245; 
receives "Mus. Doc." degree and 
conducts at Cambridge, 348 ; attends 
Philharmonic, 349 

Bonci, debut at Covent Garden, 455 

Bonnard, 378; 391 

Berwick, Leonard, dbut, 302 

Bouvet, debut at Covent Garden, 354, 
400 

Brahms, Johannes, "Mus. Doc." de- 
gree at Cambridge, 79 ; uses influence 
on behalf of Dvofak, 169 

Brandt, Marianne, dSbut at Drury 
Lane, 126 

Brema, Marie, d6but in opera, 355; see 
also 449 ; 467 

Breval, Lucienue, d6but at Covent 
Garden, 450 

Bridge, Sir J. F., cantata "Callirhoe," 
236; restores original accompani- 
ments to Handel's "Messiah," 454 



475 



Index 



Briesemeister, d6but at Covent Garden, 
455 

Brombara, 355 

Brozel, Philip, 414 

Bruch, Max, receives "Mus. Doc." de- 
gree and conducts at Cambridge, 348 ; 
conducts at Philharmonic, 349 

Bruneau, Alfred, opera "Le Reve " at 
Covent Garden, 354 ; opera ' ' L' At- 
taque du Moulin," 400 

Buckingham Palace Library, 81 ; 117 

Billow, Hans von, last visit to London, 
236 ; Wagner and, 412 ; see also 414 

Bunning, Herbert, 377 

Burns, Georgiiia, debut as Anne Page, 
50 ; creates Esmeralda, 142 

Busoni, Perrucio, 418 

Butt, Clara, debut in Gluck's 'Or- 
pheus," 375 ; see also 376; 467 

Calv6, Emma, debut at Covent Garden 
355; at Windsor Castle, 355; appears 
as Suzel, 370; at Windsor Castle, 386 ; 
creates Amy Robsart, 391; in "La 
Navarraise,"400; see also 384; 413; 
449; 456 

Cambridge, Duchess of, 113 

Cambridge, Duke of, 112 

Campanari, debut at Covent Garden, 
449 

Campanini, Italo, debut as Gennaro, 
20; in "Carmen," 89; at Her Maj- 
esty's (1879), 102; in " Mefistof ele, " 
153 ; see also 47 ; 58 ; 429 

Campobello, 49 

Capoul, Victor, 25 ; 101 

Carrodus, J. T., 22 

Carte, R. D'Oyly, opens " Royal Eng- 
lish Opera" with Sullivan's "Ivan- 
hoe," 332; produces "La Basoche," 
338; see also 337 

Castelmary, 271; 386; 391; 425 

Celli, Frank, 286 

Cepeda, Mme., 186 

Chappell, Arthur, 32 ; 435 

Clive, Franklin, in " Ivanhoe," 337 

Colonne, 404 

Cook, Aynsley, 49 

Copland, Charles, in "Ivanhoe," 337 

Corder, Frederic, opera "Nordisa" 
produced, 151 

Costa, Sir Michael, oratorio " Eli " at 
Norwich, 4 ; at Drury Lane, 20 ; con- 
ducts "Lohengrin," 47; letter from, 
54; Handel Festival conductor, 55; 
conducts "Carmen," 89; at "Re- 
demption" rehearsal, 130; conducts 
"Mefistofele," 153; see also 190 

Cotogni, 25; as Telramund, 44; at Co- 
vent Garden, 101 ; in " La Gioconda," 
153 

Coutts, Frank B. M., 377 

Cowen, Frederic H., opera " Pauline " 
at Lyceum Theatre, 49; conducts 
Promenade Concerts, 57; "Scandi- 
navian" symphony, etc., 236; Phil- 
harmonic conductor, 236; opera 
"Thorgrim" at Drury Lane, 285; 



opera "Sign a" at Covent Garden, 
401; opera " Harold" at Covent Gar- 
den, 414 

Cramer, Pauline, 189 

Crossley, Ada, 467 

Grotty, Leslie, 142; 147 

Crowe, Gwyllym, 57 

Crystal Palace Concerts, 56; 95; 96; 402 

Cummings, William H., 132 

Cunningham, Robert, 437 

Cusins, Sir William G., 114; 123; 432 

D'Albert, Eugen, reappears in England, 

Damian, Grace, 355 

Damrosch, Dr. Leopold, 212 

D'Andrade, Francesco, debut at Covent 
Garden, 186; appears in "Don Gio- 
vanni " (1888), 237 ; see also 271 

Dannreuther, Edward, 66; 74; 78 

Davies, Ben, debut in English opera, 
142; creates Ivanhoe, 337; see also 
401; 432; 468 

Davies, Fanny, 235; plays at Patti re- 
ception, 330; see also 305 

Davies, Ffrangcon, in "Ivanhoe, "337 

Davison, James W., appreciation of 
Joachim, 32; attacks "Lohengrin," 
44 

Dawson, Frederick, 418 

Declery, at Windsor Castle, 447 

Deichmann, 74 

Deliguoro, meeting with Verdi, 60 ; 64 

Delna, Mile., debut at Covent Garden, 
400 

D'Erlanger, Frederic, opera " Inez Men- 
do " at Covent Garden, 438 

Deschamps-Jehin, Mme., debut at Co- 
vent Garden, 354 ; see also 370 

Devoyod, 353 

Dippel, Andreas, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 438 

Dolaro, Selina, in " Carmen," 101 

Dolby, Sainton-, Mme., 7 

Dome, Zoltan, debut at Covent Garden, 
369 

Dufriche, 384 

Durand, Marie, debut in "La Gioconda," 
153 

Dvorak, Antonin, visits to London, 163 ; 
conducts " Stabat Mater " and " Spec- 
tre's Bride," 163 ; story of his career, 
163; and Wagner's " Meistersinger, " 
168 ; oratorio " St. Ludmila " at Leeds, 
197; see also 169 

Dyck, E. van, debut at Covent Garden, 
353; see also 370; 449 

Eames, Emma, in Paris, 271; debut at 
Covent Garden, 353 ; as Mireille, 354 ; 
in Massenet's "Werther," 361; in 
"Lady of Longford," 401; as Eva, 
425; see also 413; 438; 449 

Edinburgh, Duke and Duchess of, 286 ; 
Duke at August Manns reception, 398 ; 
see also 337 

Eibenschiitz, Ilona, 418 * 

Eissler, Sisters, 309 ; 318 



476 



Index 



Elgar, Edward, oratorio ' ' Light of Life ' ' 
and cantata "The Dream of Geron- 
tius,"431;432 

Ende-Andriessen, Frau, debut at Co- 
vent Garden, 369 

Engel, debut at Covent Garden, 354 

Engle, Marie, debut at Drury Lane 
(1887), 223; see also 413 

Esty, Alice, 437 

- Fabbri, Guerrina, 219 
Faber, G. F., 453 
Faccio, 280 
Fancelli, 102 
Faure, Jean B., 20; 25 
Finck, H. T., 411 

FitzGeorge, Admiral and Colonels, 112 
Flon, Philippe, 400; 444 
Foli, A. James, 25; 102; 154 
Ford, Sir Clare, an operatic breakfast 

at Madrid, 218 
Formes, Carl, 25 
Forsyth, Neil, 270; 429 
Franke, Hermann, 105; 125 
Friedrichs, 250 
Friend, T. H., 437 
Fugere, debut at Covent Garden, 438 

Gabrilpwitsch, Ossip, 418 

Gadski, Johanna, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 450; see also 456 

Gailhard, M., 261 

Galassi, 47; 102 

Galli-Marie, Mme., 86 

Ganz, Wilhelm, conducts New Philhar- 
monic Concerts, 105 ; introduces Mme. 
Melba to Augustus Harris, 238; see 
also 175 

Garcia, Manuel, residence in my parents' 
house, 34 ; my intercourse and studies 
with, 35; the teacher and his method 
described, 36 ; defence of the coup de 
la glotte, 37 ; his accounts of Pasta and 
Malibran, 38 ; visit to Cambridge, 79; 
at " Carmen " premiere, 84 ; at Pader- 
ewski dinner, 300; attends Maurel's 
lecture, 371; declines controversy, 
372; birthday presentation at Royal 
Academy, 399; "Hints on Singing," 
399; see also 170 

Garcia, Pauline Viardot-, 148 

Gardoni, 25 ; 154 

Gatti, A. and S., 57 

Gayarre, Giuliano, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 99; in "La Gioconda, " 153 ; see 
also 101; 186; 219 

Gerardy, Jean, debut in London, 306 

Gerster, Etelka, debut at Her Majesty's, 

Gibson, Alfred, 306 

Gilbert, W. S., 196 

Glinka, opera " La vie pour leCzar," at 
Covent Garden, 101 

Gluck, " Orfeo " revived at Covent Gar- 
den, 292 

Goetz, Mrs. Edward, 432 

Goetz, Hermann, "Taming of the 
Shrew " in English, 90 



Goldschmidt, Otto, 9 

Gounod, Charles, conducts "The Re- 
demption," 129; at rehearsal, 130; 
"Mors et Vita" projected, 132; con- 
ducts "Romeo et Juliette" at Paris 
Opera, 259 ; letter to Jean de Reszke, 
263 ; "Romeo " in French at Covent 
Garden, 271; in English at Drury 
Lane, 286 ;" Philemon et Baucis " at 
Covent Garden, 354 

Grau, Maurice, 236 ; managing director 
of Covent Garden, 429; at Windsor 
Castle, 443; resigns Covent Garden, 
453; see also 356; 419; 437; 438; 448 

Graziani, 101 

Green, Richard, debut in "Ivanhoe," 
337; see also 378; 414 

Green, William, 468 

Greene, Plunket, 468 

Gregorowitsch, debut at Philharmonic, 
441 

Greve, 369 

Grey, Earl de, 270; 429 

Grey, Lady de, 234; 235; 269 

Grieg, Edvard, debut in England (at 
Philharmonic), 236; later visit to 
London, 441 

Groll, Amelia, debut at Drury Lane 
(1887), 223 

Grove, Sir George, 56; 394; 398 

Gudehus, 189 ; 250 

Gulbranson, Frau, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 455 

Gura, Eugen, debut at Drury Lane, 126 

Gye, Ernest, assumes Covent Garden 
management, 101 ; produces "La Gio- 
conda," 153 ; collapse of Royal Italian 
Opera Company, 157 

Gye, Frederic, provincial opera specu- 
lation, 16 ; death, 101 

Halle, Sir Charles, 235; pianist and 
conductor, 305 ; see also 414 

Halle, Lady (Mme. Neruda), 26; 235; 
305 

Harper, Tom, 19 

Harris, Sir Augustus, German season 
at Drury Lane (1882), 125; sketch of 
early career, 135; my meeting with, 
137; assisted by Major Kitchener, 
139 ; first partnership with Carl Rosa 
(1883), 140; stages "Nadeshda," 147; 
unfolds Italian opera scheme, 207; 
starts for Spain to engage artists, 211 ; 
secures the de Reszkes, 213 ; attends 
bull-fights, 219; visits Seville, 221; 
tentative opera season at Drury Lane 
(1887), 221; revives " Les Huguenots," 
224; subdues an angry barytone, 227; 
project to take Covent Garden, 233 ; 
building the subscription, 234; first 
Covent Garden season (1888), 236; 
revives "L'Africaine," 239; visits 
Bayreuth, 246; secures rights in 
" Romeo," 264; managing director of 
Carl Rosa Company, 265; mounts 
" Romeo et Juliette " in French 
), 271 ; gives " Die Meistersinger " 



477 



Index 



in Italian, 271; produces Cowen's 
"Thorgrim" (Carl Rosa Company) 
at Drury Lane (1890), 285; French 
opera year, 286; "Carmen" benefit, 
288; Sheriff of London, 292; on 
Wagner rights, 295; secedes from 
Carl Rosa Company, 295 ; at Craig-y- 
nos Castle, 309 ; receives knighthood, 
309; negotiations for Patti's reap- 
pearance at Covent Garden, 323 ; at 
Patti dinner, 329; brilliant season of 
1891, 350 ; French autumn season, 354 ; 
mounts "Le Reve " and "Philemon 
et Baucis," 354; produces Massenet's 
"Werther," 362; develops German 
opera, 363 ; first German subscription 
(1892), 364; engages Mahler, 365; pro- 
duces (1892) Mascagni's " L'Amico 
Fritz," Bemberg's "Elaine," Ness- 
ler's "Trompeter von Sakkingen," 
and De Lara's "Light of Asia, 369; 
proprietor of "Sunday Times," 372; 
revives the bal masque at Covent 
Garden, 375 ; at Windsor Castle, 386 ; 
Kaiser's State visit to the Opera, 387 ; 
the Prince of Wales and, 388; note 
from Jean de Reszke, 391; mounts 
(1893) De Lara's "Amy Robsart," 
Stanford's "Lalla Rookh," Bizet's 
"Djamileh," Emil Bach's "Irmen- 
garda," and Halevy's "La Juive," 
391; produces (1894) Massenet's "La 
Navarraise," Bruneau's " L'Attaque 
du Moulin," and Cowen's "Signa," 
400 ; librettist of " Lady of Longford " 
(produced at Coveut Garden), 401; 
mounts (1894) Verdi's " Falstaff " and 
Puccini's "Manon Lescaut," 401; 
"Patti season" of 1895, 413; pro- 
duces Cowen's ' ' Harold, " 414 ; Coburg 
company at Drury Lane, 414 ; season 
of 1896, 425; illness and death, 425; 
appreciation of, 426 ; the imitation of 
his operatic policy, 448 ; table show- 
ing thirteen years' work of regime, 
456; see also 235; 249; 315; 316; 324; 
392; 400: 426; 427; 459 

Hauk, Minnie, debut at Her Majesty's 
in " Carmen, " 86 ; in "Taming of the 
Shrew," 90; letters from, 93; at Her 
Majesty's (1879), 102; at Drury Lane 
(1887), 223 ; see also 94 

Hausmann, Robert, 105 

Heglon, Mile., debut at Covent Garden, 
449 ; creates Messaline, 450 

Hegner, Otto, debut in London, 236 

Henschel, Georg, 190; his London 
career, 202 ; conducts Paderewski con- 
cert, 298; sings at Cambridge, 348; 
see also 203; 204 

Henschel, Mrs., 203 

Henson, Medora, debut in "Ivanhoe," 
338 

Hersee, Rose, 49 

Hieser, Frl., debut at Covent Garden, 
455 

Higgins, Harry V., 234; 266; 267; 429 



Hill, Lucile, in "Ivanhoe," 337; 392; 
467 

Hill, Weist, 429 

Hofmann, Josef, debut in London, 236 

Hollander, B., plays at Patti recep- 
tion, 330 

Homer, Louise, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 450 

Hueffer, Dr. Francis, 132 ; libretto of 
"Colomba," 145; libretto of "The 
Troubadour," 148 

Humperdinck, opera ' ' Hansel und 
Gretel" at Covent Garden, 402; de- 
but at Philharmonic, 441 

Isaac, Adele, 260 
Isnardon, 277 ; 353 

Jaquinot, Claude, 437 

Joachim, Joseph, 26 ; advice to my bro- 
ther Max, 31; at the Popular Con- 
certs, 32; " Mus. Doc." degree at Cam- 
bridge, 79; celebration of English 
jubilee, 393 ; speech at reception, 397 ; 
secedes from Popular Concerts, 435; 
see also 235 

Joran, Pauline, 384 

Journet, Marcel, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 438 

Kellogg, Clara Louise, at Her Majesty's, 

Kenningham, Charles, in "Ivanhoe," 

337 
Kienzl, Wilhelm, opera " Der Evangeli- 

mann " at Covent Garden, 438 
King, Frederic, 197 
Klaf sky, Frau, debut at Covent Garden, 

369; see also 401; 429 
Klein, Alfred, 173 
Klein, Charles, 173 ; 419 
Klein, Manuel, 173 
Klein, Max, 22 ; incident with Alboni, 

31 ; played before Joachim, 31 
Knight, Joseph, 107 
Kraus, Ernst, debut at Covent Garden, 

455 
Kupfer-Berger, Mme., 219; debut at 

Drury Lane, 222 

Lablache, Mme., 271 

Lago, Signor, first essay as Covent Gar- 
den impresario, 186; autumn season 
at Covent Garden, 292 ; produces 
Tschaikowsky's " Eugeny Onegin," 
343; produces " Cavalleria Rusti- 
cana, 354; see also 211; 295 

Lamond, Frederic, 418 

Larnoureux, 404 

Landau, 369 

Lapissida, 277 

.Lara, Isidore de, opera "Light of Asia " 
produced at Covent Garden, 370; 
opera "Amy Robsart " produced at 
Covent Garden, 391; opera " Messa- 
line " at Covent Garden, 450 

Lassalle, Jean, d6but at Covent Garden, 
101; as Nelusko, 158; rentree with de 



478 



Index 



Reszkes (1888), 239; life in London, 
240; vocal duel with Tamagno, 243; 
meeting at Ems, 250 ; as Hans Sachs 
in "Die Meistersinger " (1889), 272; 
as Escamillo and Claude Frotto, 287 ; 
letter- from, 287 ; debut in America, 
369; as Vanderdecken, 370; see also 
245; 353; 391 

Latham, Fred. G., 236 

Lehmann, Lilli, debut in London, 125 ; 
reappearance, 450 

Lehmann, Liza, " In a Persian Garden ' ' 
first performed, 432; 433 

Lely, Durward, 309 

Lemmens-Sherrington, Mme., 19 

Leoncavallo, opera "Pagliacci" pro- 
duced at Covent Garden, 378 ; visit to 
London, 378 

Leslie's (Henry) Choir, 429 

Levi, Hermann, 250 ; 404 

Lieban, debut at Covent Garden, 369 

Lind, Homer, 437 

Lind, Jenny, at Norwich, 8; member of 
Bach choir, 9 ; tour in United States, 
15 

Liszt, Franz, 173 ; last visit to London, 
177; plays at various places, 180; at 
Grosvenor Gallery reception, 183 

Littleton, Alfred, 178 ; 430 

Litvinne, Mile., debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 450 

Lloyd, Edward, in Gounod's ' ' Redemp- 
tion," 132; in Sullivan's "Golden 
Legend," 197; farewell concert, 460; 
appreciation of, 462 ; see also 465 

Lohse, 401 

Lorent, 369 

Lome, Marquis of, 441 

Lorrain, debut at Covent Garden, 354 

Louise, Princess (Marchioness of Lome) , 
442 

Lucca, Pauline, 25; return to Covent 
Garden (1882), 158; asSelika and Car- 
men, 158; letter from, 159; at a din- 
ner given by, 160 

Lucia, De, 219 ; debut at Drury Lane 
(1887). 223; as Canio, 378; see also 
355; 384; 386; 413; 456 

Ludwig, James, 142 

Lunn, Kirkby, 467 

Lussan, Zelie de, debut at Covent Gar- 
den as Carmen, 245; in Cowen's 
1 ' Thorgrim, " 286 ; as Carmen ( French) , 
288; at Patti dinner, 329; see also 
353; 449 

Lyall, Charles, 49 

MacCunn, Hamish, overture ' ' Land of 
the Mountain and the Flood," 236; 
opera "Jeanie Deans" produced, 
402; opera "Diarmid," produced, 442 

MacDonald, Bessie, 437 

McGuckin, Barton, 142; 145; 147; 286, 
338 

Macintyre, Marguerite, d6but as Mi- 
chaela, 237; sings in " Mefistof ele " 
(1888), 245; creates Rebecca, 337; see 
also 413; 466 



Mackenzie, Sir Alexander C., opera 
" Colomba "produced at Drury Lane, 
141 ; oratorio "The Rose of Sharon " 
at Norwich, 146 ; opera " The Trouba- 
dour " produced, 148; cantata "The 
Story of Sayid" at Leeds, 197; at 
Paderewski dinner, 300; see also 
394 

Mahler, conducts German season at Co- 
vent Garden, 365 

Malet, Sir Edward, 414 

Malibran, episode in childoood of. 38 

Malten, Therese, debut at Drury Lane, 
129; in "Parsifal" at Albert Hall, 
189; see also 190; 250 

Mancinelli, Luigi, 210 ; visit to, with Au- 
gustus Harris, in Madrid, 217 ; debut 
at Drury Lane (1887), 222; opera 
"Ero e Leandro" produced at Co- 
rent Garden, 449; see also 219; 249; 
255; 271; 277; 288; 361; 378; 443; 456 

Manns, August, conductor of Handel 
Festival and Crystal Palace Concerts, 
55; celebration of seventieth birth- 
day, 398 ; see also 56 

Mantelli, Eugenia, 425 

Mapleson, James H., 16; mounts "Lo- 
hengrin," 47; produces "Carmen," 
86; season at Her Majesty's (1879), 
102; produces " Mefistof ele " at Her 
Majesty's, 152; benefit performance, 
186; proposes American trip to de 
Reszkes, 253; season at Her Majesty's, 
280; see also 99; 222; 259 

Marchesi, Blanche, debut in London, 
435 

Marimon, Marie, 25 

Mario, 25; 259 

Masini. in Verdi's "Requiem," 65 

Mascagni, Pietro, opera " Cavalleria 
Rusticana " produced at Shaftesbury 
Theatre, 354; opera "L'Amico Fritz r ' 
at Covent Garden, 369; visit to Lon- 
don, 378; opera "I Rantzau " at Co- 
vent Garden, 378; tells story of "Ca- 
valleria Rusticana, ' ' 381 ; visits Queen 
Victoria and conducts "Cavalleria" 
at Windsor, 386; see also 385 

Maas, Joseph, 90 

Massenet, Jules, opera " Le Roi de La- 
hore ' ' at Covent Garden, 102 ; opera 
"Werther" at Chicago, 361; at Co- 
vent Garden, 362 ; see also 400 

Materna, Amalie, debut in London at 
Wagner Festival, 73 

Mattel, Tito. 309 

Maubourg, Mile., 447 

Maurel, Victor, at Covent Garden, 101; 
at Drury Lane (1887), 223 ; as lago 
at Lyceum (1889), 280; as Wolfram, 
292 ; lecture at Lyceum, 370 ; see also 
186; 353 

Mayer, Daniel, 299 

Maver, M. L., 280 

Mazzucato, G., 255; 273; 392 

Meisslinger, Frl., 392; 414; 449 

Melba, Nellie, debut at Covent Garden 
(1888), 237; as Juliette, 271 ; as Esme- 



479 



Index 



ralda, 290; as Nedda, 378; as Rosina, 
456; see also 353; 370; 413; 438; 449 

Messager, Andre, opera " La Basoche " 
produced, 338 ; appointed ' ' artistic 
director" at Coyent Garden, 453 

Meux, Thomas, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 438 

Mierzwinsky, 158; 160 

Milliet, Paul, 391; 401 

Mills, Watkin, 468 

Miolan-Carvalho, Mme., 259 

Mitchell, John, 25; 27 

Mongini, 25; 154 

Montague, A., 291 

Montariol, 271 ; 277 ; 353 

Moran-Olden, Frau, 392 

Moszkowski, Moritz, revisits London, 
441 ; conducts at Philharmonic, 441 

Mottl, Felix, 250; 404; 417; 449; 455 

Muck, Dr., 450 

Murska, lima di, 25; 154 

Musiani, Adelaide, 355 

Nannetti, 153 

Navarrini, debut at Drury Lane (1887), 

Neilson, Francis, 410 

Neruda, Mme. See Halle, Lady 

Nessler, Victor, opera ' ' Der Trompeter 
von Sakkingen * at Drury Lane, 369 

Neumann, Angelo, 124 

Nevada, Emma, 146 

Newman, Robert, 403; first London 
Musical Festival, 454; see also 404 

Nicolini, Ernest, as Lohengrin, 44; at 
Covent Garden, 101; at Craig-y-nos 
Castle, 313 ; see also 259 ; 328 ; 329 

Niemann, Albert, 125 

Nikisch, 404 

Nilsson, Christine, 25; at Her Majesty's 
(1879), 102; appears in " Mefistof ele, " 
153 ; retirement from opera, 154 ; fare- 
well concert at Albert Hall, 157 ; at a 
private bull-fight, 220; see also 47; 58 

Nordica, Lillian, appears at Drury 
Lane (1887), 223; as Valentine, 224; at 
Covent Garden as Carmen, 237; as 
Selika, 240; as Aida, 245; meeting at 
Ems, 250; letter from, 253; with 
Abbey troupe in America, 284 ; with 
de Reszkes in America, 360 ; presenta- 
tion at Metropolitan Opera House, 
420; a private recital of "Tristan," 
423; at Windsor Castle, 443 ; see also 
353; 392; 424 

Novara, Franco, 146; 309; 359 

Novello &(*>., 130; 174 

Nuovina, Mme. de, 401 

Olitzka, Rosa, 392; 441 
O'Mara, Joseph, in " Ivanhoe," 337 ; 468 
Oudin, Eugene, debut as the Templar 
in "Ivanhoe," 337; the artist de- 
scribed, 341; letter from, 342; in 
Tschaikowsky's " Eugeny Onegin," 
343; illness and premature death, 
343 ; letter from, 349 



Pacary, Mme., debut at Covent Garden, 
438 

Paderewski, Ignace Jan, dbut in Lon- 
don, 296; becomes a musical "lion," 
299 ; my meeting with, 299 ; dinner 
in honor of, 300; plays sonata with 
Piatti, 302; "Polish Fantasia" at 
Philharmonic, 302 ; performs his con- 
certo at Philharmonic, 349 

Paganini, my schoolmaster's descrip- 
tion of, 7 

Palliser, Esther, debut in "Ivanhoe," 
337 

Pandolfini, 186; 223 

Parker, Horatio, oratorio " HoraNovis- 
sima " at Gloucester, 454 

Parratt, Sir Walter, 118 

Parry, Sir C. H. H., oratorio "Judith," 
236 

Pasta, Garcia's appreciation of, 38 

Patey, Mme., 132; in Sullivan's "Gold- 
en Legend," 197; death, 376 
Patti, Adelina, at Covent Garden, 25 ; 
at Mapleson benefit, 186 ; as Juliette 
at Paris Opera, 259; with Abbey 
troupe in America, 284 ; my first visit 
to Craig-y-nos Castle, 307; letter 
from, 308; the castle and theatre 
described, 309 ; opening of the theatre, 
313 ; pantomime play on "La Tosca," 
315; visited by Prince Henry of Bat- 
tenberg, 317; at Welsh charity con- 
cert, 317; essays Wagner, 318; letter 
from, 319 ; reference to early life, 320 ; 
the voice and the singer, 321; letter 
from, 322 ; how she reappeared at Co- 
vent Garden, 323 ; pantomime play 
on " East Lynne," 327; a strange co- 
incidence, 328; dinner in honor of, 
328; appreciation of, 331; American 
concert tour, 359; receives Philhar- 
monic medal, 413; see also 71; 101; 
212; 310; 316; 324; 413 

Patti, Carlotta, 26 

Paull, William, 437 

Paur, Emil, 455 

Perosi, Abbe, oratorios produced in 
London and Norwich, 454 

Perry, Clara, 142 

Philharmonic Concerts, 95; 96; 236; 
280; 299; 302; 342; 349; 413; 441 

Piatti, Alfredo, 26 ; at Paderewski din- 
ner, 300 ; plays sonata with Paderew- 
ski, 302; plays at Patti reception, 329; 
celebration of English jubilee, 393; 
speech at reception, 394; death, 435; 
see also 33; 235; 306; 397 , 

Pinkert, Regina, 353 

Planc.on, Pol, debut at Covent Garden, 
353 ; as Pogner (in German), 425 ; see 
also 370; 438; 449 

Pollini, Bernhard, 125; 364 

Pollonnais, Andre, 327 

Ponchielli, Amilcare, opera "La Gio- 
conda " produced at Covent Garden, 
153 

Popular Concerts, 32; 402; 435 

Price, Denham, 468 



480 



Index 



Pringle, Lempriere, debut at Covent 
Garden, 438 

Promenade Concerts (Covent Garden), 
57 

Puccini, Giacomo, opera "Manon Les- 
caut " produced at Covent Garden, 
401; second visit to England, 437; 
opera "La Boh erne" given at Man- 
chester (Carl Rosa Company), 437; 
opera "La Tosca" at Covent Gar- 
den, 455 

Puente, Giuseppe del, in "Carmen," 
89; at Her Majesty's (1879), 102; 
rentree at Drury Lane (1887), 223; 
with Patti in America, 359 

Queen's Hall, opening of, 403 

Randegger, Alberto, conductor of the 
Norwich Festival, 13; sees Verdi at a 
Handel Festival, 59; conducts Carl 
Rosa season (1883), 141; conducts 
Saint-Saens's Psalm, 174; see also 289 

Ravelli, 353 

Ravogli, Giulia, debut at Covent Garden 
in "Orfeo," 292; see also 353 

Ravogli, Sofia, debut at Covent Gar- 
den in "Orfeo," 292 

Reeves, Sims, 7; death, 460; apprecia- 
tion of, 460; see also 26; 461 

Reicher-Kindermann, Hedwig, 125 

Reichmann, 250 ; 369 

Renaud, debut at Covent Garden, 438; 
in "Henry VIII, "449 

Reszke, Edouard de, debut at Covent 
Garden, 102; in " La Gioconda, " 153; 
at Pauline Lucca's, 160 ; at his home 
in Paris (1887), 213; appears at Drury 
Lane, 222; life in London (1888), 240; 
our "imitation " Wagner duets, 244; 
meeting at Ems, 250; as Frere 
Laurent at Paris Opera. 263, and in 
London, 271 ; received by Queen Vic- 
toria at Windsor, 278; at Patti din- 
ner. 329; at Covent Garden (1891), 
353 ; debut in America, 359 ; in " Lady 
of Longford," 401; as a German 
singer, 423; decorated with cross of 
Victorian Order, 443; in "Lohen- 
grin " and " Faust " at Windsor, 443 ; 
see also 245; 425; 438; 444; 447; 449 

Reszke, Jean de, debut in London as 
barytone, 57; suggested to Augustus 
Harris, 210; visit to his Paris home 
(1887), 213 ; from barytone to tenor, 
214 ; debut in " Aida >r at Drury Lane 
(1887), 221; as Raoul, 224; appears at 
Covent Garden as Vasco di Gama 
(1888) ; his life in London described, 
240; as Riccardo ("UnBallo"), 245; 
meeting at Ems, 250; letter from, 
254; as Romeo at Paris Opera, 262, 
and in London (1889), 271; as Walther 
in " Die Meistersinger " (in Italian), 
272; received by Queen Victoria at 
Windsor, 278; letter from, 278; as 
Phoebus ("Esmeralda "), 287 ; as Don 
Jose, 288; at Patti dinner, 329; as 



Otello, 353; debut in America, 359; 
letters from, 359; as Sir Lancelot 
in "Elaine," 370; absence from Co- 
vent Garden (1895), 413; appears as 
German singer in America, 419; a 
private recital of "Tristan," 423; 
sings Tristan, Walther, and Lohengrin 
in German at Covent Garden, 425 ; in 
London season of 1897, 438 ; decorated 
with cross of Royal Victorian Order, 
443; as Lohengrin at Windsor, 443; 
as Siegfried at Covent Garden, 449; 
in London season of 1900, 455; see 
also 289; 290; 361; 420; 424; 444 

Reszke, Josephine de, 154 

Reuss-Belce, Frau, 392 

Richard, Mme., debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 353 

Richter, Hans, debut in London, 73; 
founds concerts at St. James's Hall, 
105; conducts German season at 
Drury Lane (1882), 125; succeeds 
Costa at Birmingham, 190; at Bay- 
reuth, 250; succeeds Halle at Man- 
chester, 305; see also 106; 129 

Richter Concerts, established (1879), 
189; 299; 409; 417 

Ries, Louis, 22; retirement from 
"Pops, "33, 305 

Rigo, Frank, 315 

Ritt, M., 261 

Rolla, Kate, 353 

Romili, Alessandro, 28 

Rooy, Anton van, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 449 

Rosa, Carl, first London season, 47; 
comments on English opera, 48; 
mounts "Flying Dutchman " at Ly- 
ceum, 49 ; revives ' ' Merry Wives of 
Windsor," 50; letter from, 53; pro- 
duces "Lohengrin," "Aida," "Tam- 
ing of the Shrew," and "Mignon," 
90; produces "Rienzi" and "Car- 
men, 101; joint season with Augus- 
tus Harris at Drury Lane (1883), 140; 
E reduces "Esmeralda "and "Co- 
>mba, " 141 ; " Canterbury Pilgrims, ' ' 
146; "Nadeshda," 146; letter from, 
147 ; "The Troubadour, " 148 ; " Nor- 
disa," 151; revives in provinces 
Balfe's "Puritan's Daughter," etc., 
230; death, 265. [For further produc- 
tions, see Rosa (Carl) Opera Com- 
pany] 

Rosa (Carl) Opera Company, 43; at 
Princess's (1875), 44 ; cast of Mozart's 
"Figaro," 49; at Lyceum (1876), 49; 
at Adelphi (1878), 50; at Her Maj- 
esty's (1880), 90; at Her Majesty y s 
(1879), 101; at Drury Lane (1883), 140; 
in the provinces (1887), 230 ; at Drury 
Lane (1890), 285; fortunes decline, 
295; gives " Cavalleria Rusticana," 
355; produces Goring Thomas's 
posthumous opera "The Golden 
Web, "377; produces stage version of 
Berlioz's "Faust," Hamish Mac- 
Cunn's " Jeanie Deans," and Hum- 



481 



Index 



perdinck's " Hansel und Gretel," 
402; gives Puccini's "La Boh erne," 
437; produces MacCunn's "Diar- 
mid,"441 

Rosa, Mme. Parepa-, 48 

Rosenthal, Moritz, debut in England, 
417 

Rota, 25; 102 

Rouzeaud, Auguste, 154 
-Roze, Marie, at Her Majesty's, 102 

Rubinstein, Anton, revisits London, 
95 ; opera ' ' The Demon ' ' produced, 
96; last visit to England, 183; Histori- 
cal Recitals 184; see also 176; 414 

Rudersdorff, Mme., 13 

Rumford, Kennerley, 377; 468 

Russell, Ella, debut at Covent Garden, 
186; appears in " LaTraviata " (1888), 
237; in "Meflstofele," 245; in 
"Pecheurs de Perles,"271; see also 
467 

Ryan, Desmond L., 107 

Saar, 272 

Saint-Saens, Camille, introduced to by 
Garcia, 170; a sad coincidence, 173; 
arranges to write oratorio ' ' Moses, ' ' 
174; letter from, 175; opera "Asca- 
nio ' ' in Paris, 287 ; receives ' ' Mus. 
Doc." degree and performs solo at 
Cambridge, 348 ; opera "Henry VIII" 
at Covent Garden, 449 

Salaman, Charles K , 436 

Salaman, Malcolm, 112 

Saleza, at Windsor Castle, 444; debut at 
Covent Garden, 449 

Salignac, debut at Covent Garden, 438 

Salmond, Norman, in ' ' Ivanhoe, ' ' 337 

Sanderson, Sybil, d6but at Covent Gar- 
den, 353 

Santley, Charles, 25; with Carl Rosa 
Opera Company, 48 ; in " Plying Dutch- 
man, " 49; in Gounod's " Redemption, " 
132 ; appreciation of, 466 

Sanz, Elena, 173 

Sapellnikoff, Loris, 280 

Sarasate, Pablo, visits to London, 96 ; 
plays at Patti reception, 330; note 
from, 330 

Sauer, Emil, 418 

Saville, Frances, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 438 ; see also 449 

Saxon, Avon, in "Ivanhoe," 337 

Scalchi, Sofia, at Covent Garden, 25; 
in " La Gioconda," 153; see also 101; 
186; 245 

Scaria, 189 

Scharwenka, 105 

Scheff, Fritzi, debut at Covent Garden, 
455 

Scheidemantel, 250 

Schleswig-Holstein, Princess Christian 
of, member of Bach Choir, 9 ; see also 
80; 114; 386; 442 

Schlpsser, 125 

Schonberger, Benno, 418 

Schott, Anton, 90 

Schulz-Curtius, Alfred, 404 



Schumann, Clara, 26; at the Philhar- 
monic, 236; see also 33; 235; 305; 414 

Schumann-Heink, Ernestine, debut at 
Covent Garden, 369 ; at Windsor Cas- 
tle, 443 ; see also 449 

Scotti, debut at Covent Garden, 453 ; as 
Scarpia, 456 

Sedlmair, Frl., debut at Covent Garden, 

438 
- Seguin, 271 

Seidl, Anton, debut in London, 125; 
conducts at Covent Garden, 409 ; Seidl 
and Richter, 409; reminiscences of 
Wagner, 410; music to trilogy, "Mana- 
bozo," 410; see also 411; 412; 413; 
420; 441 

Sembrich, Marcella, at Pauline Lucca's, 
160; rentree at Covent Garden, 413 

Simmonet, Mile., debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 354 

Sivori, 26 

Slezak, debut at Covent Garden, 455 

Soman, Philip, 108 

Sousa, John Philip, 419 

Spohr, Louis, connection with Norwich 
Festival, 10 

Squire, W. Barclay, 391 

Stagno, 383 ; 384 

Stainer, Sir John, oratorio " The Cru- 
cifixion," 236 

Stanford, Sir C. Villiers, conducts at 
Cambridge, 83 ; opera ' ' Canterbury 
Pilgrims " produced, 146; "The Re- 
venge " at Leeds, 197; appointed con- 
ductor at Leeds, 202; "Irish" sym- 
phony, 236 ; opera " Veiled Prophet " 
mounted at Covent Garden, 391 

State Concert, described, 80; see also 
114; 119 

State Opera, for Shah of Persia, 277 ; 
for royal marriage, 387 ; for German 
Kaiser, 387, 388 

Steinbach, Emil, 392 ; 394 

Stengel, Guillaume, 160 

Sterling, Antoinette, 309 

Stern, Leo, 449 

Stolz, Mme., in Verdi's "Requiem," 
65 

Straus, Ludwig, 33 ; 305 

Strauss, Richard, debut in London, 
404; introduces symphonic poem 
"Tod und Verklarung, " 408 ; see also 
408 

Strong, Susan, debut at Covent Garden, 
438 

Sturgis. Julian, libretto of " Nadeshda," 
146; libretto of " Ivanhoe," 336 

Sucher, Rosa, d6but at Drury Lane, 
126; see also 250; 366 

Sullivan, Sir Arthur, 56; conducts 
Promenade Concerts, 57 ; letter from, 
190 ; his home and working life, 192 ; 
"The Golden Legend" produced, 196; 
note on Wagner's " Meistersinger, " 
196; as a turf -lover, 198 ; letter from, 
202; conducts " Golden Legend " be- 
fore Queen Victoria, 278; at Pade- 
rewski dinner, 300 ; composition of 



482 



Index 



" Ivanhoe, " 335 ; its production, 337; 
withdrawn, 338; funeral at St. Paul's 
Cathedral, 430; see also 193; 302; 336 
4 ' Sunday Times, " 107 ; 114 ; 147 ; 163 ; 
372 



Tagliafico, 25 

Talazac, 260 ; 271 

Tamagno, with the de Reszkes and 
Lassalle in London, 243 ; as Otello at 
Lyceum (1889), 280; with Abbey 
troupe in America, 284; see also 413 

Tamberlik, 25 

Ternina, Milka, debut in London (con- 
cert), 404; at Co vent Garden, 407; 
as La Tosca at Covent Garden, 455; 
see also 449 

Thomas, Ambroise, 429 

Thomas, Arthur Goring, opera "Es- 
meralda" produced at Drury Lane, 
141; opera "Nadeshda" produced, 
146; letter from, 148; death, 151; 
"Esmeralda" in French, 287; post- 
humous opera "The Golden Web" 
produced, 377; see also 290 

Thomas, Lewis, 429 

Thudichum, Miss, in "Ivanhoe," 337 

Tietiens, Theresa, 7; at Norwich Festi- 
val, 16 ; in oratorio and opera, 19 ; 
last appearance at Her Majesty's 
Theatre, 20; illness and death, 21; 
see also 25; 47; 58 

Tilbury, C., 437 

Tosti, F. Paolo, 113; 355 

Torriani, Ostava, 49 

Traubmann, FrL, 369 

Trebelli, Zelia, 20; at Her Majesty's 
(1879), 102; in " Mefistof ele, " 153; at 
Covent Garden.(1888), 237; death, 375; 
see also 25; 85 

Tschaikowsky, Peter, debut in Eng- 
land, 236; conducts piano concerto 
at Philharmonic, 283 ; opera " Eugeny 
Onegin" at Olympic Theatre, 343; 
my meeting with, 344 ; receives " Mus. 
Doc." degree at Cambridge, 348; con- 
ducts "Francesca da Rimini," 349; 
meets Eugene Oudin, 349; "Pathe- 
tique " symphony under Richter, 409 

Unger, George, 125 

Valda, Giulia, debut at Covent Garden, 
186 ; 309 

Valleria, Alwina, as Michaela, 89 ; cre- 
ates Colombo,, 145; creates Nadeshda, 
147; in "L'Africaine," 158 

Vanzandt, Marie, debut at Her Maj- 
esty's, 102 

Verdi, Giuseppe, conducts "Manzoni 
Requiem" at the Albert Hall, 59; 
meets old fellow- student at rehearsal, 
63; "Aida" inaugurates Drury Lane 
season (1887), 221 ; " Un Ballo in Mas- 
chera" at Covent Garden (1888), 245; 



"Otello " at the Lyceum, 280 ; " Fal- 
staff " at Covent Garden, 401 

Vianesi, A., 44; 100 

Victoria, Her Majesty Queen, 79; re- 
ceives Franz Liszt, 180; hears 
" Golden Legend " at the Albert Hall, 
278; receives the de Reszkes and 
Albani, 278; hears " Cavalleria Rusti- 
cana" at Windsor, 355; receives 
Mascagni and hears "L'Amico 
Fritz " at Windsor, 386 ; receives Ed- 
vard Grieg and wife, 441; decorates 
Jean and Edouard de Reszke, 443; 
hears " Lohengrin " and " Faust " at 
Windsor, 443; see also 444; 447 

Vieuxtemps, 26 

Vignas, Francesco, 355; 386; 392 



Vigne, Jane de, 271 
Vogl, Heinrich, 125; 



250 



Wachtel, 25 

Wagner, Cosiina, birthday serenade, 
411, 412, 413 

Wagner, Richard, "Lohengrin" pro- 
duced at Covent Garden, 43; "Fly- 
ing Dutchman" in English, 49; last 
visit to London (Albert Hall Festival), 
65 ; my meeting with, 71 ; " Der Ring 
des Nibelungen" produced in Lon- 
don, 124; "Tristan und Isolde " and 
"Die Meistersinger " produced in 
German at Drury Lane, 126; "Parsi- 
fal" at Albert Hall, 189; " Die Meis- 
tersinger" in Italian at Covent Gar- 
den, 271; Seidl's anecdotes of, 410, 
411, 412, 413; scriptural scene "Last 
Supper of the Apostles" at Albert 
Hall, 454 

Wagner, Siegfried, debut in London, 
404; symphonic poem "Sehnsucht," 
407; see also 407 

Waldmann, Mme., in Verdi's " Re- 
quiem," 65 

Wales, Prince and Princess of, at the 
Opera, 223 ; the Prince and Sir Augus- 
tus Harris, 387; see also 237; 240; 266; 
278; 286; 337; 387; 388; 453 

Walker, Edyth, debut at Covent Gar- 
den, 455 

Wartegg, Baron Ernst von Hesse-, 90 

Webber, Amherst, 423 ; 424 

Weingartner, Felix, 404 

Weiss, 7 

Wiegand, 250; 369 

Wieniawski, Henri, 26 

Wilhelmj, August, 67; 106; 318 

Wilson, Hilda, 432 

Winckworth, A. S., 437 

Winkelmann, Hermann, d6but at 
Drury Lane, 126 

Winogradow, 271 ; 277 

Wood, Henry J., 403 

Wylde, Dr., 105 

Yorke, Josephine, 49 ; 147 
Ysaye, Eugene, debut in London at 
Philharmonic, 280 



483 



