 TWO VIEN  
 I ME3OIP L  



TWO MEN 



Oxford University Press 
London Edinb1rglJ Glasgor Ner Yorl, 
Toronto 21Ielbozcrne Cape Toron Bombay 
Humphrey Milford pl, blisber to tbe Uni'versity 



TWO 

MEN 

OE JIsE M O I R 

OXFORD 
PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS 

1919 



The Cloisters, 
To H. E. E.H. :Eton College, 
l¢/'îndsor. 
Ml r DE/kR HUGH, 
I ara very glad I asked you to let me see the proofs 
again, for the sight bas ruade it clear to me that a f-ormal 
pref-ace f-rom a respectable Head Master would bc somcthing 
oY an outrage. I can't imagine anything more alien fiom 
the spirit of the New House than a solemn  apprecia- 
tion ', and no one could know better than Southwell and 
White how repugnant I should lïnd the task. 
On the other hand, they could not mind my writing you 
a lctter about them : if-there is one thing which this book 
makes plain it is that in a ]etter there is nothing which 
ma)" not be lït]y said when one is sure of one's correspon- 
dent, and they would, I think, appreciate the fiction by 
which I am supposed to disclose to you a lot o£ things 
about them which you know already far better than I. 
For the chaacteristic which stands out in my mind is 
the amaz[ng power whieh both oç them lad of  making 
believe 'mot rather of-making words and events and books 
and circumstaaces generally serve their own particular 
mood. The language which they imposed on the New 
House is an illustration of it, and Southwell's power of 



vi 

giving an air of momentous gravit} to the most trivial 
occasions is impossible to forget. No Masters' meeting 
can ever be quite the saine to me when he isn't there to 
address us on one of the subjects which he ruade his own» 
though his harangue used (}ou will remember) to begin 
with a confession that he was hot quite sure on which side 
it was that he fclt so strongly. Thc importance of trifles, 
the stores of humour to be unearthed from the common- 
places of lif% the infinite issues depending on a word or a 
phrase» until it was displaced flore its undeserved pre- 
eminence by another equally unexpected, these are some of 
the lessons which their daily lire displayed. They b.ad, in 
a word» the truly  poetic' faculty, though it did hot find 
expression in the consecrated form of verse. Southwell's 
lines on page 6 9 and his astonishing achievement in 
making his form into a nursery of English versifiers show, 
perhaps, wlat he might have done, and of course I have no 
means of knowing what secrets White told to lais violin ; 
but however it may have been expressed» the power was 
there : and if any critical reader complains that the instances 
I have given suggest rather the fancifulness of children than 
the inspiration of the author» I should answer that poets 
and children have the greatest qualities in common, and 
that when to their common powers of imagination they 
add the grace of humility they form the chosen citizens of 
the Kingdom of God. 
Any one who happened to read this letter without the 
book which it introduces might fancy that they dominated 



vii 

our Society at Shrewsbury by sheer force of personality and 
insistence on their own lines of thought ; but to read their 
letters is assuredly to realize that we loved them for those 
very qualities of humility and unselfislmess which shone out 
so supremely in the end. And here I touch on things too 
sacred for speech: I can only say in ail sincerity that 1 
know of none among ail my friends to whom the sacrifice 
was greater or by whom it was made in a more noble 
spirit. 
They vould resent any attempt to draw a moral, but l 
think they would not mind my saying that their lires and 
death brought additional honour to one ofthe noblest of pro- 
fessions, for they ]oved the lire and work of a scl:oolmaster 
as only born schoolmasters can. And there is one thing 
I know they would wish me to say, and that is that the lire 
of our Society fiom which they went was for those few 
years a nearly tk.at of a happy farnily as any which the 
wole annals or" schoolmastering can show. The New 
House, the Staircase, the Rehoboarnite Mcetings, Kitch's 
room with its interminable discussions and uncovenanted 
meals,--these are things which can never be forgotten 
while one of us remains to bless the naine of Shrewsbury : 
it never can happen again, but let us thank Heaven for the 
happiness we knew and for the fi'iends from whom we 
]earnt so much. 

Yours ever, 

C. A. ALINGTON. 



viii 

E.H.L.S. 

Born--March I9,1886. Eton: King's Scholar--January, 
I899. Magdalen Col]ege» Oxford : Demy--19o 4. 1st 
class in Modcrations--19o6. znd class in Litcrae Huma- 
niores--19oS. Stroke of Col]ege Eight: Head of the 
Riveri9o ç and 19o6. Stroke of College Four: Head 
of the River--i9o ç. O.U.B.C. Trials--19o 5" and 
9e6. University Crew--,9e 7 and 19o8. Stewards' 
Challenge Cupi9o 7. Leander CrewIgeS. Spare 
Man for Olympic CrewtgoS. Assistant Master at 
Shrewsbury School-- 9 Io. 

BornJanuary z÷, 887. Birkenhead Schoo1--898. 
King's College»Cambridgeigo ç. Voluntary member of 
King's College Choir--9o ç to 9o9. Captain of Coilege 
Boat--Igo 9. Assistant Master at King's College Choir 
Schoo1--I9o8. Abroad in Berlin and Rouen--tgo 9. 
Assistant Master at Marlborough College--i91o. Assis- 
tant Master at Shrewsbury Schoo]--i9io. 



CHAPTER I 

SHREWSBURY 

SEVTEMBER 1.910 TO MtRCH I9I " 

EVELYN SOUTHWELL and M/tLCOLM WHITE came together 
as masters to Shrewsbury in t9to; they left together in 
x 9 x 5 ; and they both were killed in the battle ofthe Somme. 
For those who knew them both it is impossible to consider 
them apart; the memory of them is single. To their 
contemloraries and to each other they were known as « the 
Men '. « Man, it's rime to go into school.' « Yes, Man." 
And so, in this account of their Shrewsbury life, they will 
be spoken of as ' the Men '. 

The following is an account of their first four terms, 
written by one who lived with them during that rime :m 
It is interesting to recall the impressions which they 
ruade on their arrivalo White had visited Shrewsbury 
before ; he came with experience of teaching at King's 
College Choir School and afterwards at Marlborough 
College, and with a reputation as a singer and violin- 
player: a reputation which was entirely justified by his 
performances. At first he made no very distinct impres- 
sion, probably because of his shyness, and he did not seem 
at once to tale very kindlyto Shrewsbur : he was constantly 
recalling witt regret the rime he had spent at Marlborough, 
|155 



2 Shrewsbury, 1 91 o--I 9 1 5 
but this phase did not last long: Shrewsbury soon became 
to him the object of reverence which it remained until the 
end. But several terres passed before he was valued at his 
true worth, partly owing to his shyness and partl), owing 
to his modesty ; the latter quality remained to the end as 
one of his most striking characteristics ; it was so perfectly 
genuine. He was an excellent violinist, and he must have 
known it, and the saine may be said of his powers as a 
singer, },et his skill in these directions was never obtruded, 
nor concealed b), an), false modesty. If asked to play, he 
would pla),, and his « That's rather joll),, isn't it ?" at the 
end of the piece suggested that, quite unafFectedl),, he con- 
sidered that the gratitude of the listeners was due entirel), 
to the composer; in fact he seemed to join in the gratitude 
and to regard himself as one of the listeners. 
His keen sense of humour did not appear at once. 
was of the  modern "t),pe which is best illustrated in litera- 
ture by the work of  A. A. M. ' in Punch ; though in some 
respects perhaps R. L. Stevenson was the forerunner of the 
t),pe. At any rate, White's love for The H/'rong Box was 
infectious, and quotations from that classic constantl), 
accompanied our meals. 
Southwell's arrival was somewhat different ; before his 
coming in Ma), I9Io he was known to no one in Shrewsbur), 
--apart from the Head Master--except as a first-class oars- 
man. He arrived almost straight from a long visit to Paris, 
and seemed at first very French ; his !ove of French litera- 
ture and the French nation (c those adorable people" he 
called them in at least one letter from the Front) remained 
constantl), with him. He came about eight o'clock in 
the evening of the day before school work began, and when 
some of the arrangements were being explained to him that 
night he caused some surprise b), inquiring about trains to 



Shrewsbury  9  o- 9  )" 3 
Liverpool ; he wanted to go to see an Oxford friend who 
was leaving for America. 
On his first morning the news arrived of King Edward's 
death.  Southwell» the King is dead!' greeted him 
through his bedroom door belote he was up.  No» really ? ' 
came back the answer in a tone of complete and absolute 
boredom and lack of interest» soon followed by remarks 
of interest and real concern. « No really ? ' spoken in 
a non-committal tone of voic G was often his answer to a 
remark either when the subject did not interest him or 
when he was really thinking of something else; in the 
latter case he generally shewed his interest very soon 
after. 
On another occasion after being very late on Saturday 
night, he ,cent to bed at a quarter to eleven on Sunday 
night; by a quarter-past elevcn he was sound asleep and 
was awakened by,  Southwell» the fire-engine is coming 
over Kingsland Bridge ; shall we go up to the school to see 
if any of the boys are burning ? ' « No»' he answered ; but 
within a few seconds he had collected himself» and rive 
minutes later was round at the School Hous% where there 
was a tir G happily a small one. 
At Shrewsbury he had his first experience ofteaching and 
his enthusiasm was extraordinary. Few meals passed without 
his explaining exactly what he had been teaching and how 
and who had done well and who badly ; this soon became 
a source of amusement, in which he fully shared. 
Another tact that is worth mentioning is the way in 
which a remarkable friendship grew up between these two 
men. It was not entirely due to common interests in 
lire or a similar outlook; it seems rather to have grown 
gradually, each man finding that the tastes of the other 
interested him and were worth acquiring. For instance, 
B • 



4 Shrewsbury» 1 9 IO--I 9 I J" 
Southwell's idea of music at tle time was musical comedy 
White introducedhim to Bach, Mozart, Beethoven, and 
Brahms, and there was an amusing discussion one night 
when Southwell complained bitterly that no one had 
told him of these men belote ', whilst he was wasting his 
rime at Oxford with musical comedy music. But with his 
extraordinary powers he went into the subject thoroughly» 
as his notes on the St. irlatthevo Passion shew ; and inci- 
dentally his piano-playing improved in the most remark- 
able way. 
Both men had one charactmistic in common--absolute 
tb, oroughness in whatever they undertook ; though it was 
shewn in different ways. When a new subject, or duty, 
arose about which they were ignorant, if it were unimpor- 
tant and uninteresting they probably would bave nothing 
to do with it. But if it were interesting and important 
(or even interesting without being important) then there 
was no stopping until it was completely understood. With 
White this would mean a kind of nervous restlessness, 
asking questions, diflïdence in his own powers of compre- 
hension and execution. Southwell, on the other hand, 
was very quiet, mastered the facts, would never say that 
he understood anything until he had completely mastercd 
it ; in this way, to thoe who did not know him, he might 
sometimes seem slow ; when suddenly he would shew that 
he had grasped the whole thing and understood every point. 
But in either case, if either of them undertook to do a thing 
which seemed to them of any importance, it would certainly 
be well done. 

What follows is an account of their lire from September 
9   onwards :-- 
Their first home was a bouse called  Broadlands' an 



Shrewsbury I  I O--I  I }" }" 
untidlz , comtbrtable p!ace high above the river with a view 
of the twin spires and Haughmond in the distance ; and 
there were dalzs when lzou smelt the autumn mist that 
rose from the Severn and la t, wreathed about the town 
and the tbur poplars, so that--as White said--one longed 
for Corot to have painted it. The ramshackle state of 
the house and garden» which was given over as a iungle 
to the car, was a perpetual source of satistkction to the 
Men. And there was the cons«rvatorlr which had no flowers 
and the lift which sank monthl t, to the basement with a 
shattered freight of crockert, , and Southwell would sa),  We 
shall have to have a man up about it'. The hoase was 
never taken seriouslt, i during one argumentative meal 
White--unable to make himself heard--wrote up on the 
wall of tl;e dining-com in chalk,  You owe me £.: OE: g', 
and the inscription rcmained till we left the hous«. 
It was a home of manlz interests, some fleeting, others 
permanent. The life of the scl:ool was always of absorbing 
interest to both, but never incompatible with astounding 
activities at home. « Some Iambic composition is indi- 
cated' Southwell said (both men adored Tte ,'ro,g Box); 
and he sat up into the small hours wrestling with a volun- 
tarlz coplz  which for a week on end remaincd the central 
f-act of his leisure hours. Or the household would be 
comp«lled to read Racine aloud, though Southwell alone 
would fully understand it. He had been for some months 
at the Sorbonn% end returned with a passion for ail things 
French, so that tbr a time Phèdre and The Beloved Vagabond 
alone would satis(y him. White was for ever full of 
musical schemes and tunes ; he was discovered alone in 
his room, with a full score of the Fifth Symphony on the 
mantelpiece, conducting with the poker an imaginary 
orchestra, which was reproduced by every manner of sound. 



6 Shrewsbury  9  o-  9  Y 
On Saturday evenings he played sonatas on the violin at 
which he was expert Southwell accornpanying hirn on the 
piano ; Bach Beethoven and Corelli would usurp meal- 
rimes ; and on Sunday afternoons the folding-doors between 
a sitting-room and the dining-room were opened and on 
one occasion as rnany as forty koys carne to tea, and lay 
about the floor reading or listening to sonatas and a string 
quartet. The car was an intirnate rnernber of the house- 
hold and from Southwell's unswerving devotion to it was 
known as  The Groove' ; when the first kittens arrived 
White burst into school and announced to Southwell in a 
whisper»  Man» the worst bas occurrcd : there is more than 
one cat in the house'. 
Both rnen were expert oars ; Southwell had rowed twice 
for Oxford and coached the School Eight for their first 
appearance at Henley in 913- It was typical ofthe arnaz- 
ing contrasts in his character that irnrnersed in a fugue of 
Bach he should discover that he was overdue for the river 
and after an hour's absorption in the science of rowing 
return irnmediately with zest to the piano. In both their 
rninds there was a strain of science as well as art. White 
was a clear teacher of Geography and Tactics ; and there 
was one Sunday when, in a sLx-hour discussion on the nature 
of the Universe Southwell illustrated rnetaphysical argu- 
ments by diagrarnrnatic arrangement of the tire-irons. It 
was long after rnidnight when the discussion ended and no 
one was satisfied with the result. And there was a day 
when Southwell» having invited a guest to lunch at one» 
arrived frorn his forrn-roorn at three» having wrestled since 
i z.3o with a geometrical problem of which the prelirninary 
data were erroneous. It was characteristic of him that 
this was a voluntary labour entirely outside the range of his 
work, undertaken for his own amusement. 



Shrewsbury, 19 x o-x 9 x.r 
Both men held stronglï the affection and respect of 
the school. White had that perfcct control of boys which 
enabled him to bring the atmosphere of a Christmas party 
into form ; he would teach sitting among the boys or 
standhg on the window-sill and swinging from a cord ; his 
persistent good retaper ruade him see the humour of all that 
occurred ; he could race a boy into school without loss of 
dignity ; yet no member of the staff was more laboriously 
conscientious over the preparation of his work ; and he 
undervalued neither critical power nor imagination» neither 
science nor Poetry. Southwell was unique as a teacher ; 
his own accounts of his work were so self-depreciatory, and 
often so comic that we never really knew what went on ; 
but no boy who had been in his fbrm ever forgot it. He 
probably spoke more freely and naturally to his form 
even than to his friends. He read Poetry to them which 
few can do with success ; and there was no doubt of his 
success here. It was this that indirectly inspired the poems 
which were written for him every week» some of which 
were eventually published under the title of « V. B' when 
he was in France. Few of those who bave read the book 
will deny that it is a remarkable result ; for the poems 
were writteri by average boys of sixteen» anti his detailed 
criticism was small ; they were the indirect outcome of his 
enthusiasm. Of his own delight in his boys' work his own 
words from the preface of the book are witness :N 
« There are going to be lines in your book x which bave 
meant more to me than their writers ever knewmthough 
Heaven knows I used to express my gratitude heatedly 
enough. I forger how much I told you about the beginning 
of the thing. It all started two years ago with those three 
terrific poets» who set a fashion bound to be followed and 
 The book was edited for him by a ffiend. 



8 Shrewsbury x 9 x o- 9  )" 
without w?om my little snowball could never bave come 
together. Sometimes I longed to print every line in my 
album; but that was absurd» and surely the poets whom 
want of space excludes from print will not think themselves 
or their works excluded from my memory.' 
Sunday mornings were great days» for then the poems 
arrîved» and he would read them aloud to us» rejoicing in 
the poetry and revelling in the comic or grotesque ;  side- 
steppingliterature' he would say ofgrislypassages that ruade 
you shrink. He was a great phrasemaker and a toaster of 
improbable quotations ; a passage from Three 2rien in a 
Boat might illustrate a point in Virgil or Xenophon: he 
had the humorous appreciation of a scho!ar fbr irrelevant 
detail ;  Aeneas is fourth cousin three rimes removed to 
Agamemnon; I think it is important' was a note sent 
round to us one morning from his form-room. Ail his 
scholarship took a picturesque form ; problems of grammar 
he illustrated by diagrams on the blackboard, and it has 
been hard for some of us to avoid plagiarism. But of the 
spirit of the form his own pupils alone can adequately 
speak; the R)urth Eclogue is still remembered by the 
gestures with which lae declaimcd it ; for he would read it 
to his form whenever Christmas drew near with the 
enthusiasm of a religious rite ; and when one of his boys 
was asked about the form» he said :  Mr. Southwell walks 
round the room reading Homer to us with tears in his eyes." 
And tlaat he was himself a scholar» is seen from this trans- 
lation of Canon Beeching's poem»  Prayers ' :-- 

God who created me 
Nimble and light of limb, 
In three elements free» 
To run» to ride, to swim: 



Shrewsbury,  9  o- 9  ç 
Not when the sense is dim, 
But now fiom the heart of joy, 
I would remember Him" 
Take the thanks of a boy. 

cep «ï« eor '  p. 
Both men had keen athletic interests. Southwell had 
charge of the schoo] rowing for ur year% and it ruade great 
progress under his coaching. He was also an energetic 
fives-player though the following corr¢spondence from their 
form-rooms seems to tell another tale : 
« What you want» you know is fo phy after IOE. Then 
I should (Deducta est...) play too- (nê clr di) (in te). 
« Do play aIter . 
M. G. W.' 

 No Courts, and less of it altogether, please. 
'E. H. L. S.' 

White was very versatile; besides his work and his 
music, he found rime for football, cricket, rives, and rowing ; 
few things gave him such pleasure as the occasion when a 
house-four which he had coached won the challenge oars ' in 
the Lent term of 94 ; their rate had exercised him for days 
and nights beforehand and threw him wLolly into the 
atmosphere of the Cambridge faces. Tlere was no game 
or sport that he touched in which he did hot shine, if" not 
brilliantly, at least successfully. He was an efficient otcer 
in the O.T.C. He was a keen fisherman and skater, and 
from the days when, as an undergraduate, he performed 



i o Shrewsbury I9 o-9 
incredible feats of roof-climbing over his colleg% a daring 
cragsman. 
The}' used their holida}'s characteristically. Southwell 
was generally at home content with books and music. 
These are extracts from his letters and postcards. The 
first was written at a rime when he was leaving his home 
at Newcastle for Worcester :-- 

To H. E. E. Howso. Bisivoio Jacob Hostel-- 
lecastle-uioon- 
Dec. z3 x9II. 
l've been lying a good deal here about the sadness of 
leaving N/C, but often with m}' tongue in my cheek as ifit 
would push through to the outside ; the change after all is 
more to than from, the land of my nativity. As a marrer 
of fact we shall miss the liveliness of this place somewhat, 
but then it's always just when },ou're getting to like a place 
that (Bromide; thank you). Sic itur ad l/orstra. 
(Oh, very bad.) 
I ara taking the liberty of sending along with this one of 
the E. V. L. books as some token of the ardour with which 
we await» Sir, your esteemed commands ; I hope ver), much 
it's as good as the last one I read, which was The Friendly 
Town ; he is usually I think, the most comfortable author 
in Europe, A. C. B. a good second :  03 0' ; 
I hope the Man arrived safe. Needless to sa), I have a 
fearful cold, which ma), decide to be a chill an}, moment. 
Otherwise I have nothing to complain of be},ond the need 
of sending by post what I would rather deliver in person, 
my best wishes for Christmas and the New Year. 



Shrewsbury»  9  o-  9  Y   
To H. E. E. HowsoN. Bishop acob Hostel 
Necastle-upon- Tyne. 
) tan. % I9IŒE" 
That b t, the book having been read which that man had 
sent he himself» as by an incredible certain pleasure he 
was affCted nor not» as the Greeks said» wonder:ully how 
rejoiced» so for so great a gift to bave as greatest thanks to 
be compelled he seemcd. 
The Path (for surely it is worthy ofthis abbreviation-badge 
of admission to the Broadlands classics) only arrived from 
Messrs. Bowes this morning, and I bave now read some 13o 
pages ; and it is really magniflcent. I have just reached the 
« Praise of Windows '» a very comforting performance. 
Otherwise nothing very much bas happened to delight or 
bore me particularly: I bave gone within three plays of 
finishing Racine» and shall no doubt do them before long-- 
though hot of course with any attempt at thoroughness. 
The last took about I hoursç so you c,n see it is no very 
studious perusal. But it gets over the ground and promotes 
that hateful something that the Man would denote  atmo- 
sphere "» which is all to the good. Also hardly less than three 
hours per diem over the piano» especially the Liszt. It's 
far beyond me» but i can get over the tituber to some slight 
extent now. Dances are practically at a premium» one 
only so far : ich grolle n&ht. 
The Man's letter contains, 1 am persuaded» sufficient 
marks of virility to justify its enclosure. 

To H. E. E. Howso. llorcester. 
(_/1 postcard.) 
Guy _Mannering» vol. il» ch. 16. 
 And a' the bairns tan to saddle Dumple' (D. Dinmont» 
his pony).--]t bas just struck me that this is among the 



 2 Shrewsbury  9  o- 9  " 
more Epic things in W. Scott, and I do hOt think I should 
leave you unadvised of the matter. 

To H. E. E. Howsol. I4orcester. 
(1 postcard.) 
New Book by A. C. B. : 
Hero confronted with fariner wearing  serviceable brown 
suit and leggings'. Now that's what I call beautiful. 

To H. E. E. Howsot. College--I,'orcester. 
an. 3, 1913" 
Look here, I don't think you're being very good. How- 
ever, we'll try you once more. 
This cornes from an old house up river where I stayed last 
night for a dance. " 

RUNE OF HOSPITALITY 
(rioto the Gaelic) 
I saw a strangr yestreen ; 
I put food in the eating place, 
Drink in the drinking place, 
Music in the listening place, 
la the Sacred Naine of the Triune 
He blessed myself and my bouse, 
My cattle and my dear ones. 
And the ]ark sang in her song 
Otten, often, often 
Goes the Christ in the stranger's guise ; 
Often, often, often 
Goes the Christ in the stranger's guise. 
To H. E. E. Howso. College__I4orcester. 
Dec. "-3" 
The Mozart is great fun, but though I played him 
practically ail the first two days, he has to retire for the 
moment. I ara having lessons from Ivor Atkins. He was 
splendid. After being in the b.ouse rive minutes he said, 



Shrewsbury t 9  o- 9 * r  3 
 Now how much can you practise ? Tnree hours» I supposc ?" 
So I said I would and he would hear of nothing but Bach's 
forty-eight preludes and fugues, and started me on one or 
the few that have rive parts. His playing of a prelude I had 
ground away at was a perfect marvel. And here ara I 
booked for Thursday with that fitgu% which I haven't yet 
touched and a prelude going across country, 'for technique' 
as he calmly put it--which I can nearly play badly after 
some hours. A remarkable man, of whom I stand greatly 
in awe. 

To H. E. WALKER. College--l/L'orcester. 
Dec. ŒES, I913o 
I began Pickaick again for the I-don't-know-how-many- 
eth time yesterday so you may take it I'm fairly happy ! 
started it in bed as usual--an evil habit, they say, but 
don't find I read more than a few minutes, soit doesn't grow 
into a nuisance. Don't get choked with it ifyou're reading 
other things; chapter z 7 is about half-way, and I often 
recommend people to go there and continue next term-- 
they don't often stop there for good! You'll like it all 
right» or you wouldn't be no friend of mine! 

Mr. Ivor Atkins has written what follows about him :-- 
 It was in the summer of 19Iz that I first met Evelyn 
Southwell, and well I remember the impression he made 
upon me. He had already about him a certain quiet strength 
and a seriousness and a sincerity which to a great extent 
ruade it easier to bridge over the years which lay between 
us. However this may be, there quickly sprang up a 
complete sympathy in musical matters, and his visits to 
Worcester from that time were welcomed by me for the 
opportunities they gave ofcoming into contact with one who 



4 Shrewsbury, 9 o-9 )" 
had a deep and abidingenthusiasm for music. In these all-too- 
few visits there was always much to talk of. He must bave 
shewn a missioner's zeal in making good music known to 
the boys of Shrewsbury School, for he brought me glowing 
accounts» from time to tire% of the success which came to 
those who co-operated with him in the work of introducing 
chamber music to them. The steady growth in attendance 
of the boys at these little music-meetings was a joy to him» 
and the fact that the best music easily won a way to their 
hearts was to him a sufficient reward. 
c His enthusiasm for music, and, perhaps» especially his 
measureless admiration for Bach» made him very attractive 
to me» and this attractiveness was only heightened by his 
quietness and modesty. He was at the rime studying the 
piano» in which I was able to give him some help» and it was 
a great delight to me to watch him working at the forty-eight 
preludes and fugues. Though his playing was wanting on 
the technical side he more than ruade up for it by his insight 
and sense of interpretation  and in discussing them with 
me I was very early struck by his knowledg% and b t, the 
clearness of his musical faculties. 
« It was his habit to find his way to the organ-loft at 
Worcester soon after his arrival in vacation tim% and I 
round increasing pleasure in these visits. His coming was 
always the occasion for some of the greatest of Bach's organ 
works to be drawn upon» and though» as I bave said» he 
had a considerable knowledge of Bach» he had had few 
opportunities up to this time, I should imagine» of hearing 
the larger organ works. This was especially true of the 
Choral Preludes. His joy in a great work was splendid, 
and I shall never forget his reception of the Fuga opra 
)Vlagificat. He shared with another, whose ries to the 
Cathedral were similar to his own» and who to% has ruade 



Shrewsbury, 1 9 IO--I 9 1 " 15 
the great sacrifice, a power of appreciation which was 
nothing less than an inspiration to others. It was a 
privilege to have known Evelyn Southwell, and though he 
came into out musical lire in Worcester for but a short 
rime, in that rime he brought into it sympathy and a high- 
souled appreciation, which were of" more value than he 
probably knew and he leaves a memory which I, for one, 
shall long cherish.' 

Such is a picture of Southwell's holidays. White went 
farther afield ; to the Nant Ffrancon pass in North Wales, 
which was a second home to him ; to Scotland for fishing ; 
even to the Alps, tbr skating and skiing : and there were 
stories of how he travelled in a domino mask or played 
Dvok on his violin to a ring of open-mouthed peasants 
in a station restaurant on the Swiss frontier. And beyond 
ail this, there was the military training demanded of him 
as an officer. Some of lais letters follow :-- 

To H. E. E. Howso. l»kerman Barrackswl/oking. 
.,4trll zz, I9IZ. 
Good mornin'. What ? These infantry "talions, what ? 
Cimabue for brown photograph of picture by, many thanks. 
I was so glad to hear from you. That may be a bromide 
--but no it can't be, as it was true. \Ve have had a very 
good and profitable rime. We both know all about every- 
thing and have seen some very interesting fightin'. 

To H. E. E. Howsol.  A/lere Cottage--Oxton. 
Sunday, .4ugust I I, 191 Z. 
Hasn't he really ? Probably, I think. Certainly. No, 
I don't. I don't see what you mean by that. Yes, of 
 His home. 



i a Shrewsbury, 
course. Exactly. 
else. Yes, Yes. 

I9IO-I9IY 

Not at all. Have you ? 
Yes, quite. Rather. 
Meaning of above : 

No, nothing 

I don't teach him anything. But I know everything you 
wish to know. You couldn't have corne to a better person. 
I have the whole of the organisation oç the IVth £orm at 
my finger-tips. This, added to extraordinary brilliancy, 
political acumen, and an intuitive appreciation of the in- 
terests of the boy, make me at once the model and despair 
ofevery schoolmaster throughout the breadth of the land. 
I too have been having a lazy time. Reading, trios, 
quartets, lunching, dining, smoking. I have bought Bach's 
Sonatas for violin and piano. 
But see here. I bave taken the bull between the teeth with 
both hands and bave bouglt a present for Kittermaster for 
zç/-. It is a Medici copy of Leo. da Vinci's  Last Supper '. 
I date say you think I ought to be exiled to Boulogn G Assisi 
and Florence  after that, but I spent a whole morning trying 
to think of anything else. Will it do? 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. lere Cottage--Oxton. 
8eptember IO. 
I wired, because Mrs. Lloyd, answering a post card of mine 
asking for trousers, said : 
' No trousers here, van (sic) I send Mr. Howson.' 
So thought that might mean that you had them. I think 
now that ' van' should be ' can ', = can I send Mr. Howson 
('s {so Schrumfkk Coll. Ed. Syr. Byz.}). All of which 

 Tb¢ Pat to P0me: page o. 



Shrewsbury» I9tO-tgty t7 
means that shc probably proposes to send me yours. 
Anyhow 1 ana sick of that subject, except that some 
sort of Man must bave a pair of tl'ousers of mine. 
Did you go to the Passion Music yesterday ? We played 
Schubert and Bcethoven string 4rets yesterday Beethoven 
and St. Saens trios in cvening, Schumann and Dohnnyi 
pfe. quintcts this morning. 
In the excitcment of man), wires coming and going I 
set off for the dentist's carrying a large Nue and white 
Italian vasc which l happened to bave in my hands when 
Mrs. L.'s wirc arrived. 
You know my opinion about The Ring and the Book. But 
it improves for me as I get to Caponsacchi and Pompilia. 
I know I shan't tinish my reading now, as I'm beginning to 
fiss about Geography for next tertn. 
That Man of ours bas been very silent these holidays. 
Next terre! Hah! 

To H. E. E HowsoN. x Alere CottageOxton. 
Dec. zo» I9oE. 
Catsa G his packing bcing tinished in one night, whcn he 
had placcd a Man over the slaves and baggage animais, 
which ho had left as a garrison at Broadlands, having set 
out thence about the fourth watch, went into winter 
quarters at the above address. This having been done he 
sent letters : that he himself had slcpt a great deal ; that he 
had spent some time in the toy department of a large and 
neighbouring emporium on that morning; that he had 
bought for a distant, small» and hitherto unknown cousin, 
two charming ckckwork vmVlTIl M ; that it was in 
mind to him hot to sçnd these IGHTIN-G MEN to his 

' With a party of boys at Lake Ogwen in Wales. 
 C 



 8 Shrcwsbury»  9  o-x 9 x r 
cousin but to kcep them for himself; for he liked thcm ; 
that he hoped that thcy were having fun; /et them in 
climbing the saine virtuc, liberality, moderation, goodness» 
genius» which always belote in othcr matters» now use. 
Carry my love to the ledge on the North Buttress. 

To E. I-]. L. Sotr rwt.:t.L. 4rgentlèresFrance. 
anuary +, 191 3" 
All right--wc won't play the Grieg. I believe your 
criticisna of Hungarian and Scandinavian finds ail that 
thcre is of naost vulnerable in them» but I like them. I 
havc it (the Grieg) bore in any case. I bave been playing it 
and othcr things with a French lady bere wlo is rather good. 
Tbere is quite a good piano here for a mountain place. 
This is a wonderfl vallcy. Mont Blanc is the highest 
mountain in Europe'. Mont Blanc is *the most beautiful 
mountain in Europe '. \Ve have wondtful crême de menthe 
looking glaciers at our door. 
Ti:is place is packed with French pcople» all wry charm- 
ing and amusant. On entend de la langue trës liquide. 
Well, p'.caçe order tor me the Mozart Sonatas» and let us 
do Nos. , XV» and thc one with two movements one 
of which is a slow rondo. 
Yes, 1 know about those Bach Sonatas ; we must do them. 

To E. H. L. SOUTHWELL. 3lere CottageOxton. 
Look hereless of it. What the dickens is the matter ? 
I bave received the following tclcgrams. 
() «Luggage not advanced price impossiblc! (The ex- 
clamation mark is ours [ ours" you know].) Is it soon 
enough I meet wlqat train Monday (How does any one 
know I am going through Shrewsbury at ail on Monday ?) 



Shrewsbury, 19 I0-I 91 J" I 
with it or rnust if go." A weak firfish, that. No 
signature. 
Then at .o I get a wire, c Did you address, etc .... Address 
Èvers!ey. Mar "(sic [ ' sic" you know]). Still thinking Fou 
af Eversley, I wonder who Mar is (1 sce him as a leat, 
spare man with a cast in his eye [in l'ris cye ? {hah}]). 
Lastly I appeal fo you, apart frorn practical considera- 
tions, to give this letter your closest study, as I feel that 
it has considerable literary merit. 
A very weak Man. 

To H. E. E. Howsor. a$1ere Cottage--Oxton. 
Fridab Ipri!  7" 
It bas been a busincss. I Fearful reaction to-day, prc- 
sents lying about and workrnen taking things fo pieces ail 
over the place and whistling in hard sunshine, if ),ou 
see what I mean. . 
By Gad, we'll walk the Shropshire hills next terre. 
Our dog was delving in the earth the other day, which 
rerninded me that I should like to go fo Delft. I suggested 
the saine to rny father. We are therefore going to Delft. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Mere CottageOxton. 
Apr. IgI . 
A good rnodern history is Outlnes of 311odern History, 
by Grant. l've discovered how the Roman Epire bccomes 
thc Austrian Empire. l've also rnade a discovery about 
thc Eglish aristocracy on the way back frorn church, whicb, 
I hope, will turn out well on consideration, l've also car- 
ried rny godson right round the garden, where there is 
a sight of blue \Velsh hills, nodding daffodils, and a west 
wind full of wallflower srnell, al1 of which is none so bad. 
* Written afier a Gmily edding. 
C - 



. good 

zo Shrewsbury, 
To E. H. L. SOUTHWELL. 

I9XO-I9I 

Lochshiel Hotel-- 
Advaracle--ArgyIIshire. 
Aug. z 4. 
! lave caught no fish but I have read and nearly finished 
W. James" Varleties of ReIigious Experience» which is good. 
I am glad you had a fine day for the F. Show. F. Show 
looks iike a shopman's naine in a country town. 
That's mysticism. 
Next terre will be good. Think of those early morning 
mists and « porridge and turns mixed '. 
Well, I apologise for the entire above. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Lochshiel HoteI-- 
Achar acIe--Argllshire, 
Sept. 3" 
Oh a ver}, grcat place I think. And 1 bave seen Sk)'e, 
away in the distance» the Coolins sticking up ail nccdly into 
tle air--and Rum, Eigg and Muck lying so bluc and nice. 
And the ç@oç, oh ] the çdç¢. Andthe fish. They don't fise 
a bit: 1 bave caughtjust about three really respectable ones. 
A nice strange hostelry this. Various rides of visitors 
have cbbed and flowed over us. 
\Ve ail talk about flies» and the badness of the fishing, 
and the fishing we once bad in South Uist. 
I go to the Chantry ncxt Monday. Bach (St. Matt. 
Passio») and Brahms' ReŒEuiem. Think of it. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Acharacle. 
I ara ordcring tle book on Philosophy by this post, though 
1 have the Ring the Book» the Camel and the Needle's Eye, 
by Browning» and Ponsonby» here with me. 
l hoFe to finish W. James this evening. 
* Marginal note by E. H. L. S. 



Shrewsbury, t 9 t o- t 9 x " 2  

Tot t. E. E. Howso. Mere Cottage--Oxton. 
Dec. zS» 19I . 
I ara rathcr fiat, and start to-morrow for Hotel Meyerhof, 
Hospcnthal, and you will write to me there, and have you 
ieft Cambridge, and did you get the harmony book and I 
bave ruade some progress with a new one of my own, and l 
havc a superb ncphew, and all sorts of nice people send me 
Christmas cards, and some had holly berries on them, and 
some had just sprigs, yes sprigs, and you will write, won't 
you, to a Man ? 
The last page of this is like certain forms of poctry with 
a point at the end ofeach rather formless stanza, fs it hot 
modern? Is it hot art ? 

To H. E. E. Howsoy. Hosl, enthal--$witzerland. 
_t.  9  4- 
We are entirely alone here, in a hotel of a tolerable 
size, with the usual lounge, etc. Therc was a man here 
br a bit, whose presence seemed entirely unreasonable, and 
jut about the rime of his departure we were in danger of 
being kept awake by the hand whose sole audience we were 
werc wewhose sole audiences[ shall never make a 
success of that sentence. This place is kept by the family 
Mcyer, who have lived in this valley for centurics  rather 
interesting. Tribalstage ofsocietyliberalismtotemism 
--morality. 

In May I9I 3 we left Broadlands. Among later memories 
of thc place stands out the occasion when one member 
of the house became a temporary invalid through concussion 
after skating» and thc advent of a nurse caused so much 
rearrangement of rooms and furnitur% and such confusion 
and laughter of thc Mon, that a misfortune was turned into 



22 5hrewsbury,  9  o-i 9   
a picnic; or a night at the end of a winter ternb whcn 
• examination papcrs were correctcd far into the night with 
intervals for biscuits and cocoa. Gcorge Fletcher i left us 
at  a.m. and went to his bouse across the river shouting 
the 2VleiçtÆrsi»gÆr ; and therc w«re some of the party who 
were still found working by the dawn. It was something 
of a tragedy to leave Broadlands and ail that ¢human 
disorder and organic comfort which makes a man's house 
likc a bcar's fur br him'; but it was a change to civil- 
isation and wc bccamc respectable householdcrs. The 
new homc was a housc recently built br masters nearer 
to thc boys' bouses; £rom thc iïrst it was known as thc 
«New House ' and when a dctnite naine bccamc nccessary 
this clung to it. It was a largcr bouse than Broadlands 
with a wide view to Wcnlock and the Stretton hills ; R.F. 
Bailey joined us, and£or a termGeorge Fletchcr, till he 
went to Eton. TI:c garden shewed promise of- more 
civilised tastes, and many of" the designs, both insidc and 
outside tlae house were chosen by the Men tlemselves. 
These letters f"fore Southwe]l are, relics of a fevered 
holiday preceding the change : 

To H. E. E. Howso. 

E,versle)'Kingxla»d 
Sbre'w3ur.r. 
Proposal B. _/lpril 
. Tour carpet now in dining-room to new dining-room. 
ŒE. Tour carpet now in your sitting-room to your new 
sitting-room. 
i An assistant toaster at Shrewsbury from Sept• rgr r to july 
xgrj» and after that at Eton. He served as an officer in the 
Intelligence Corps throughout the Great Retrea b was then 
attached to the, Royal Welch Fusiliers» and was killed in action on 
March zo» i9 . 



Shrewsbury,  9  o-i v  " z 3 
3- My sitting-room carFet to my bcd-Joom. 
Disadvantages: (a) Your sitting-room carptt is vcry 
bad ; Mrs. Lloyd says it will burst in holcs whcll taken up, 
if hot carefully done : this suggcsts bed-room hot sitting- 
room. (b) My sitting-room carpet in my bed-room seems 
vasteful. But, advantage lbryou:-- 
House buys yaur carpet instead of mine. 
Therc you have the whole situation mapp«d out at geat 
expense of thought. 
If you'll think hard, I think )ou'Il sce what all this 
tabulated rhetoric means. 
G. M.R. says this is likc Tbe oe'ra»g Box, and [ patly 
believe it. 

To M. G. "VHITE /IND ['-]. E. E..Howso. 
collegeII/orcester. 
Ipr. 4, 913 . 
l've said «.çeed grass not turf'. He  pointed out that 
it would mean no gaines br threc months» but that 
even so when the weather was dry we cauld walk on it 
if necessary. On the other hand the grs is a 'v. èç 
e] and all that and he argued in Demosthenic wise that it 
would be very bad for the sake v¢ ««vx' ov; to 
have the thing turfed and necessarily full of weed seeds» 
and coarser. This 1 hope you'll agree with. If you agree 
as clearly as I do with him on the int we won't waste 
time by writg all round the quintet. I was disappointed, 
but we can still have some fun there and we bave prospoets 
of our subsequent summers and rv tOv«rtu to take 
care of. 
We had a long talk as to continuing hedge on mound 

I The gardener. 



2 4 Shrewsbury x 9 x o-x 9 x " 
right round» but there were various reasons against that, 
which we can talk of when wc meet. It took  hours to 
hatch this idea. I also said he might put in one long 
flower-bed at end of garden; he urged that it wouid be 
rather dull otherwise. 
Personally I would as soon have had lawn right up, but 1 
believe one bas a claim ruade on one by flowers rather» and 
it will do us no harm to have some at the end thcre to 
play with. l'm awfully stupid re flowers and I think it's a 
]ittle absurd. 
Interlude ; I'm sick of this. 
lvor Atkins at supper said he played a big Bach Choral 
Prelude to-night thinking I should be thcre. 
Boy I told ),ou of sang Passion Musiç better than any ont 
[. A. has heard. Heart-breaking we missed it. Look here ; 
choir returns April zz. 1)o corne on way back and hear bim 
and stay a day or two. 

This was Southwcll's attitude to thc New House. White 
regretted the absence of machiner), in the hall ; the sort 
with a icatheln, undulating ber that whirrs ceaselcssly and 
goes ' p-lonk ' as he said. Both men always regarded 
engineering as a sorrowful mystery. The new bouse 
soon becamc a home, and the)' bccamc intimate with new 
surroundings. 
Men with such a fceling for words and phrases wcre clearl), 
enamoured of books. Neither was in a truc sense ' widely 
rcad' perhaps ; but both had the rater gift of remembering 
intimately and in detail the books of which they were fond ; 
and when once an author, were he Shakespeare or Jerome K. 
Jerome, was admitted a classic of the house, quotations 
from him wcrc permanent. Southwcll's shelves in parti- 



Shrewsbury 1 9  ç- 9 1  2. " 

cular comprised a strange medlcy, ltalanta in çalydon living 
neighbour to a volume on the Golf Courses ofthe British Isles. 
But there wcre favourites in common to both ; Richard II» 
Orthodoxy» The Four 2rlen» Ronsard's poems» The Pick.wick 
Papers (on which Southwell was almost infalliblc), thc Song 
of Taliesin from thc dlabinogion The Ratée B.eI» Sait- 
l#ater Ballads» and a,/Shropshiri Lad; Lamb's Essa),s werc 
cspecia]ly dear to White, and Southwell read The Pirate 
cvery Christmas. Pcrhaps the most quoted and bcst-lovcd 
book of ail was The Path to Rome" Charles Amieson 
Blake was an accepted membcr of the household» as xvas 
Michacl Finsbury. Of the Classics, Virgil was the spccial 
favourite. On the wholc, ;hite had thc botter lnemory 
for subject-matter, Southwell for dctail • but this is hot to 
limit an exclusive province for eithcr. For both quotcd 
frcely" « Not what I need (said the 13abc) but vhat I want ; ' 
« Why, thcn, I xviil bave somc of that excellent bccr ;' 
 Positively thc last appcarancc of thc Grcat Vance" (the 
latter Southwell would quote to his form on the final exit, 
it may be, of Polyphemus). Thesc are phrases that recur to 
the memory ; and of other litcrature : 
To-day the Roman and his trouble 
Are ashes under Uricon» 
or 
Rue» even fbr ruth herc shortiy shall bc Sçl'l 
In the remembrance of a weeping queen. 

They both spoke strongly in approval or disapproval of 
books that they liked or disliked, with feats of exaggeration 
that were humorous, but ncvc,- intolerant. For ail that, 
Southwcll, who had an infinite patience with tiresome 
conversationalists and was generous to a fault, could bc 
impatient with a tiresome author. He forgave mcn more 



26 Shrewsbury 1 9 I O--I 9 I J" 
readily than books ; },et even in his litcrary antipathies he 
never Iost balance: whatever is meant by the  Artistic 
Tempcrament', creative or critîcal» ît shone clcar in him ; 
so clear, indeed, that hs obvious sanity over ali things vrai 
anti human was thc more remarkab!e. Though his pre- 
fcrence was tbr imaginative writing, he shcwcd remarkable 
grip of ail argument, for all his pretencc that he could hot 
follow thc plot of KidnaI)ped. His standard in grasping 
the mcaning of an autl:or was so l;igh that, wherc othcrs 
might claim to bave arrived he scemcd to himsclf hardi}' 
to bave set foot ut'on the way. Once fascinatcd by an 
autb.or, ho was only content when ho had searched for his 
inncrmost mcanhg and thrown light on cvcry obscu,ity. 
He would cvolve long gencalogies to clcar up a point, but 
he was nevcr a pedant. Though he was, by his own con- 
fession, an amateur in music, his dctailcd analysis of parts 
of Bach's St. Wlattkew Passion is tronged wJth idcas ; and 
thcre was one Saturday in terre rime whcn wc had a break- 
down after rnotoring to a Foint tweive mlles from Shrews- 
bury and six from any station ; after six hours' unavailing 
effort, we acccpted the inevitable at midnight ; and at 1.3o 
Southwcll was still reading himself to seep, on the floor or 
an inn-parlour, with an article on harmony in an encyco- 
pacdia chosen at random from the shelves. He was seldom 
heard to talk of politics, andstrangely cnoughwith 
few exceptions, such as thc ' Mona Lisa ', pictures had littlc 
interest for him ; charact_ristically ho devoted his rime 
almost exclusively to other çorms of art which appealcd to 
him more. White said of him that, had ho not bcen a 
schoolmaster, he would bave been known as a critic ; and it 
is probably true. Yet imagination was the reigning quality 
:ven of his criticism  that is clearly seen flore these notes 
of his, taken from his copy of the .4eneid : 



Shrewsbury 9 ro-91 f 27 
Book z. I-i 3. 
These are lines whose appeal is hot all Virgil's own, and 
yet I read them almost kneeling. For in them is shewn 
a glimpse of the wl-.ole conscious soul of the Epic. It s 
hot often that we catch the Epic Muse introspectîve. Yet 
here I thinl% if anywhcr% she sits pondering in sad triumph 
with ail the cities of antiquity boidered on hcr robe, and 
nursing nearcst ber heart ail that they bave est of powess 
and of pain. Great sieges and long endurance, patient 
wandcrings and the enmity of Hcvenall thcsc arise to 
meet the vision of the greatest city of ail time, whose 
bundations were laid in song. And more there clings 
round those lines some of the strange morning-wondcr of 
the Middle Ageher lawns afire with minstrels and her 
colleges dreaming in ston% and the long memory of the 
dear company of scholars» our kin, xvho in ways brgotten 
of wisdom and of folly bave gloried or blundered over the 
tale. Let us go gently and re member our fathes, as befits 
men approaching a great mountain Valhalla of the praises 
and pains of amous men.Lie quiet, Dido : it is the last 
hour of Troy. 
8oek 2.2z. ' 
Simile, short. ut this point bas tu bc considercd; I 
ara hot yet sure ff I tbink a simi]c m»t be long tu be among 
the best. The end of the Scholar-Gpu , of course, and some 
of Homer's and Virgil's ; I think I like the long oncs best. 
Book 6. 8." 
1 correct mg version ofthe Is&s ofGreece with  obcuntia'. 

' Qualis mugitus, rugit cum saucius aram 
Taurus et incertain excussit cervice securim. 
 magnas obeuntia terras 
Tot maria intravi duce te. 



28 Shrewsbury,  9 t o- 91  
I don't think  mulcentia' will do: too much of it alto- 
gether. 
Book 6. zo3.  
 Gemina '» if right» is one of thc « loncly words '. If is 
right for four reasons, which I know. 

Book 6. 34 . 
• Tendebantque manus ripac ulterioris anaore.' Thc 
definition» I think» of Poctry. 
Book 8. z÷--. " 

C. thinks ' rcgia' is in mockcry : it will hot do. For 
() the whole passage is stately, (.) Virgil bas hot much 
scnsc of humour. 
8ook 9" 9"-" 
«Prosit nostris in montius ortas.' I will have so:n¢ 
un somewhere with this line. 

White had Southwell's love of imaginative writing. If 
he had not himself so marked a gift of sclf-exprcssion the 
power was not wanting. His interests were varicd ; he 
was fond of idealistic discussions on religion» history» and 
politics» and could read a text-book on « Insanity ' without 
a trace of morbid interest» with profit» and vith appreciation 
of the humour of such an action. Ho was intcrcsted in 
problcms ofthc day» but impatient ofcatchwords andlike 
Southwcllfully aware of how much was nceded before he 
could daim understanding of a subject. He was fond of 
pictures» particularly of thc English water-colour scbool 
and the landscapes of David Cox ; with the realism of the 
' Sedibus optatis gemina super arbore sidunt (columbae}. 
: At specus et Caci detecta apparnit ingens 
Regia. 



Shrewsbury    e- 9  f 
1)utch painters too, he had great sympathl,. Though he 
said himself that» had he had the power» he would gladly 
have devoted his lire to poetry and eriticism of potrt, , it 
is with music that he is more csp¢cially associated. He 
felt the debt which he owed to Southwell for literal- t, in- 
terest» and Southwcll was as grateful to him for what he 
had learnt of music. It was the claims oçthe Cambridge 
Musical Club which» as he said with amused regret» left 
him at the end or" a Cambridge terre with nothing but an 
undigcsted spccch of Ciccro to his credit. Yet he was far 
froln blind to the beauty of the Classics» and had been one 
of many who were alive to the inspiration of \ralter 
Headlam. At King's he was a voluntar member of the 
choir tbr sevcral gcars. Till Shrewsbur t, won the tirst 
place in his heart» Cambridge was to him the home of 
that ruade lit best worth living. He left it with a know- 
ledge of men» and a mind awake to innumerable interests. 
Not least of its gifts to him was the power to take part in 
a string quartct» often at first sight, with confidence and 
skill. Iîle had a grcat memory for tuns» and could 
remember without hesitation a passage whici he had 
once heard» and that some years before. Man t, will re- 
member his solo from the .Ieiteriger» sung at a school 
concert» followed soon afterwards by a difficult sonata of 
leethoven for the violin. He was devoted to Purcell and 
the English ¢omposers of Madrigas ; and perhaps his 
gleatest musical achievement was that, largel through 
his connexion with the \Vorkers' Idueational Association, 
he organiscd fort t, Feople from the town» wl:om he con- 
ducted once a wcek iii madrigals and folk-songs for 
concert which was onl prevented b I, the outbreak of war. 
 Such as tbund out musical tunes and recitcd verses i 
writing.' Tl-e words seem vividl t" to r«call them botl. 



3o Shrewsbury, IgIO--IgI )" 
At the New House the time s]ipped happily by-" there 
was the work of school hours every day of living intcrest 
to both» nnd in the evening we would « sit round" (to use 
Southwell's phrase) and (with Southwell himself often 
as]cep in a chair) discuss books theories or th¢ day's events 
or there would be boys to tea and one would look into 
Southwell's room and find a silent ring engrossed in books 
belote a winter tire ; thcre was the £amous night on which 
a dog barked persistently in  gardcn a/ong the road and 
Gcorge Fletcher cxaspcrated» ventured out in pyjamas at 
th ree in the mo rning» and cried cmphatic/ly at the oènder's 
gate- «Take in your dog» sir! Take in your dog;' the 
bouse was tenantcd as was discovered later» by thrce 
maiden ladies. 
On November ï Whitc annually let off rive fireworks 
in thc garden drcssed in a scholastic gown and broad- 
brimmed Ilt hat looking for ail the world fike « Tall 
Agrippa' corne to life: and therc was a lazy summer 
aftcrnoon when Southwell in a fit of boredom suddenly 
announccd  A ride in a cab is rcquired ' ; and within the 
hour we were wandering sleepiiy round Shropshire lanes in 
an open victori% whose driver bad orders to stop at every 
bridge» wiacre he rcceivcd a cigarette while we watched the 
tream undcr thc willows; and so lom% when South- 
wcll fled to the river to coach the Hcnley Eight or 
p]aycd thc l Tth Fugue of Bach which he called  The 
Foundations of thc Earth'. Mcals wcre necessarily spas- 
lnodic and White would heighten their irregularity by 
prcsenting arms from « Thc Port  or giving a detailcd 
rendering of thc  Eroica sympbony'7 or imitating a puma 
in its cagc at thc Zoo. On wintcr evenings wc would 
find exercisc by running in thc dark ; and on Thursday 
mornings, having no carly school Southvcll practised this 



Shrewsbury, I 9 IO--I 9 I J" 3 I 
aloe belote brcakfast, recalling the days of Putney. And 
on summcr aft«rnoons there was crick«t fo watch, or we 
sat in the garden by the half-grown priver hedge ; « and if 
it doesn't grow quickly ', $outhwell would say,  we shall be 
overlooked by a long-nccked man in a straw bat.' 
Expcditions wcre ficquent; sometimes "up river' ; some- 
rimes (in winter) to thc town, from which $outhwell would 
return with twcnty collar-studs and an early edition of 
Ossian ; sometimes to% f-artl:er afield often in company 
with boys to the Breidden hills or Ludlow or Church 
Stretto% to climb Caradoc. Southwell oft«n went by him- 
self on the spur of the moment, and visited the Long Mynd 
or lost himsclf on the uplands of Cltm Foresto Or White 
would be taken in Gcorge Fletcher's side-car and togcthcr 
they would scramblc on the rocks of the 8tiper-stoncs. To 
both Southwell and White the proccssion of the seasons 
was a pagcant; the winter terre was always the most 
welcome» but all times ofyear had their glamour and mystery. 
They appreciatcd the fi reside and the hills alike, the  Friendly 
Town' and the « Open Road " November winds and days 
of heat in summcr whcn it xvas almost too hot to row ; and 
all with an affection tbat was far stronger than mire liking. 

' How well 1 know what I mean to do 
When the long dark autumn-evenings corne,' 

White quoted in a letter; and it was a happiness common 
to them both. 
Behind all their tastes and interests, Skrewsbury was the 
dominant fact ; to the school they were devoted with a 
rare measure of unselfishness. To strangers they were 
reserved, and however freely they might speak to friends, 
this reserve was a permanent feature of their characters. 
Words meant much to them, nor did they laugh freely at a 



3 2 Shrewsbury» r 9  o-r 91  
joke unless thcy wcre amused ; their reticence never ruade 
othcrs feel awkward, ),et their approval was a compliment. 
Unr«al enthusiasm and bad taste ruade them unhappy» 
and they coincd a new word,  spinal ",  for the feeling, 
yet their scnse of humour invariably prevailed» and left 
thcm generous and kindly. They were readilyadaptable to 
new places and surroundings, though the power of self- 
adaptation came to White by eoEort and to Southwell by 
nature ; but thcre was no circle which after a month did 
hot receive both with open arms. White felt himself a 
stranger fbr a rime at Shrewsbury ; he was drawn by so 
many inccntivcs and was the slave of so many visions, that 
thc settled Iabit ofsurrcnder toits atmosphere came slowly 
and he was beset with doubts as to his ultimate work. 
Thesc uncetainties gradually faded, andby the rime that 
he lcfttbe place and its lire la), close to the centre of his 
al{ctions ; he felt happy in his work, and one of his col- 
leagues darcd call him thc ideal schoolmaster'. It was 
high praise, but at lcast shews that Ahite was hOt far from 
finding his life's work. Southwell» with equal humility, 
was yet lbnd of Shrewsbury from the day of his arrival, and 
his happincss was inctious. Throughout, it was the one 
rcal pivot of his intcrtsts. Religion was to both a thing 
of wonder, hot to bc cxpressed in direct speech, defying 
analysis, but vital. Lit? remained to them a mysterious 
web, shot with tears and folly and that laughter which 
marks a « gross cousinship with the most high, and feeds a 
swing of merrimcnt in the soul of a sane man'. Their 

 This word, which occurs fi'equently in their letters, was a 
word used 11 the household to express the uncomfortable feeling 
in the small of the back» produced by embarrassing recitations» 
etc. But its context in each case will best explain its meaning. 



Shrewsbury» 9 o-9  f 3 3 
humour was of that rich sort which does hot paraphrase 
itself, but confideutly assumes its cquivalent in others ; yet 
it was never cynical, and never tar removed from sympathy. 
It is for thes% among other gifts, that their memory is 
treasured. 

At the beginning of August 191 + the Shrewury Corps 
went to camp as usual» and \Vhite was with the contingent. 
On the outbreak of war camp was broken up, and for a 
timc it secmed possible that he migbt be called up as a 
Territorial Officer. But in the course of a few wccks it 
was decided by the War Office that only such officers of 
the O.T.C. as cotfld b,e spared from the schools werc to 
go ; and White was nceded at Shrewsbury. In view of ff.e 
courage with which ho faced ail risks later on» it is perhaps 
not unf:air to quote flore onc of his letters words which 
show lais first, instinctive attitude to foreign service; 
indeed they emphasise the high quality ofthe courage which 
could overcome his doubts, and enable him to say later, 
' The only thing I ara reaily afraid of, is that I shall be 
afraid '. 

To H. E. E. Howso,. The Hill-Top 
ladlettHertfordshire. 
lugust I 91 c. 
I came down here yesterday to stay with my sister at a 
charming little house, l've still had no news as to what 
is being done with O.T.C. officers. 
l'm feeling very cowardly al:out it all ; doing nothing, 
and not a bit keen about volunteering for foreign 
service, and wretched with myself for hOt being keen to 
OEO SOo 

t, D 



34 
These arc 
timc : 
To H. E. E. Howso. 

Shrewsbury 191 o- 91 " 
furthcr lctters of his writtcn at the samc 

The Hill-Top-- Radlett. 
lug. I9, I914. 

[On a picture post card, shwing a photograph of a bouse ; 
he had marked onc of the windows with a cross.] 
This is hot my bedroom. In fact, I don't know who 
docs lire in that housc ; nobody that I know. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. The Hill-TopmRadlett. 
_/Iugust 26» I9I 4. 
At prescrit l'm just sitting. The food and the beds 
are good. I have two beds. And l've rcad N. Angell on 
Balka» l¢ars and Peaces very good ; .[a»e Eyre ; Stalky OE Co. ; 
The Simpkins Plot ; 1Veto Irabian Nights again (Providence 
and the. Gultar is tl;e best short story over written. « The 
grcat thing about the stars is that they bclong to everybody 
in particular.' « Art is Art," he repeated sadly.  It is hot 
\Vatercolour Sketches nor practising on a piano. It is a 
lifc to be livcd.'); al1 Synge's Pla),s; Marshall's Economlcs, 
a little ; Enoch -Irden ; The 2lltcsketry lade 2llecum ; Gals- 
worthy's A Country House» a bad moral, but good as a series 
of tums and smart set coaversation. 
l've done a good dcal of Harmony and ara beginning the 
cxercises on thc diminished 7th. Brahms' Symphony in F 
is good» and so is the Schumann pïfttte. Concerto. Hcard 
both last weck. We are going to a Beetloven and Bach 
programme on Friday. You would corne too if you were 
in town but 1 suppose you won't be. Ring up if you are 
(Radlett 
By Gad» I ana hating this war. I hopc things will go 



Shrewsbury, I 9 I O-- I 9 I  3  

better soon. I wish we hadn't got a week's extra holiday. 
The Man keeps ringing me up at home, in spite of the 
fact that I'm away. 
l've been bitten by a fly in thc leg, and can't walk-- 
there ! 

In Scptembcr, with another Shrewsbury officcr, he helped 
with the training ofa battalion oftbe K.S.L.I. at Blackdown, 
having charge of a Company of z$o recruits, and stayed there 
till thc beginning of October, when terre began at Shrews- 
bury. 
XVe were all of us glad to bc back to definite work after 
thc suspense and inactivity of the long hol[day. That 
Michaelmas term there was much to be done, for whi]e 
work and gaines continued unaltered, exccpt in quantity, 
thcrc was a whole new province of mi]itary work ; new 
lecturcs to be giron, field-days to be planned, and squads 
of senior boys to be trained for service. Sevcral masters 
left the school at the start, to join battalions. White 
was left in command of a Company, and Southwell, who 
had hitherto had no connexion with the Corps, joined as 
a pfivate. In man), ways the life of the household was un- 
changed, but what had before been leisure hours were largely 
given over to military work, and the days were seldom long 
enough for all that had to be donc. Southwe]l round 
ceaseless amusement in the thought of himself in this new 
part, and was for ever drawing ludicrous pictures of the 
character of the «practical man', and pretending that 
military science was beyond his grasp. Towards the end 
of the term he strained himself on a field-day, and an 
operation was necessarï. He put up with this cheerfully, 
and shewed amazing equanimity, and afterwards looked 
back almost with pleasurc on the time spent in the nursing- 
D "- 



3 6 Shrewsbury, t 9 x o-x 9 x r 
home. \Vl;en he was convalescent many fictitious or 
ncglcctcd bottles of medicine were sent down to him from 
the New Housc ; for it had always been his habit to forger 
his tonics for a week avd make up for his omission by 
a comprehensive dose at the end. His cheerfulncss was so 
inffctious that his visitors became hilarious and almost 
endangered tb.e spced ofhis r¢covery. The Christmas holi- 
days were spent by him in convalescence, while White at 
F.ome helped with the training of Bantam battalions, with 
intcrvals of relaxation, as on the occasion whendressed 
in fill uniformhe met a visitor on Birkenhead platform 
with a demand to pull a Christmas cracker on the spot. 
During the Lent termtheir last at Shrewsburycame 
thc news of George Fletcher's death in the trenches. In lais 
own words from an inscription he was still « Novac Domus 
socius '. And though for some terres he had been at Eton 
and then at the Front» it was impossible not to think of him 
as a member of the household. This is part of aletter 
written by him ri-oto the Front shortly belote his death : 
' 1 bave now had dinnerIrish Stew, Beer Sardines on 
Toast» Marmalade. Also the sun is streaming in with 
some rcal warmth and I ara feeling hearty. I will there- 
fore makc some general remarks on the subject of rar. 
' There may be some excitement in it, but that takes the 
form of a fearful strain on the nerves without any of the 
exhilaration one usually associates with danger. Perhaps 
a day attack can be exhilarating: in fact the only rime 
! bave been pleasurably excited was when the enemy 
attacked us b), day and we knocked them down. Our 
attack is yet to corne. The fact remains that war is a bore 
and we are ail fed up with it. 
« Death ; one becomes a fatalist on this subject and looks 
firward resignedly to the prospect of extinction: « That 



Shrewsbury, I 9 I O--I 9 1 j" 3 7 
moving Fingcr writcs, and having writ» Movcs on . . ." 
And again another poct saith, 
And there are several other writers whose remarks are to 
the point on the subject» not the least being those of thc 
Labour Party of Galilee. 
« Fear and Courage ; I think it was a man called Socratcs 
who said that Courage was a right knowlcdge of such 
things as are to be feared : and to a considerable extent, 
ho was right. When you know how little damage a 
high explosive shell does to you compared with the noise 
it makes, you don't fear him so much. But Socrates is 
only partly right. I know what a foel a shell is and 
what a fool a bullet is and yet I ara terrified of both. 
But a more insinuating and demoralising fear which 
seizcs man is an entirely illogical unreasong fear of the 
eucmy as such; imagining m to possess surhuman 
qualities when he knows he is very human. Hence the 
great thing is» and will be, to make men realise that the 
enemy is much more afraid of you tn you are of him. 
Hate is non-existentat a events on our side, I 
think on the enemy's too. He too is capable of ing 
jovial in his enmity towards us» and will signal misses 
or bull's-eyes when we plug his loop-holes. 
 Atrocities; I haven't seen any. AH first-hand evi- 
denceeven that gained on the Retreatgoes to prove 
that the German soldier as a whole is capable of gentle- 
manly and chivalrous behaviour and of s he has given 
numerous examples. 
«The Future  in front of us there is a ridge on which 
we can see three rows of trenches» barbed» barricaded» and 
cunngly dug. These we shall have to deal with aRer his 



38 Shrewsbury» 9o-9 f 
first line. They probably have several hundreds of tl:ese 
behind those we see. In October the Germans» with 
unheard-of courage» determination, and force, tried to 
break through a single line of ours and tailed.--rell, 
what abaht it ?" 
At the end of the lcttr was a passage exhorting both 
the Men to join 8attalions. Southwell himself said later 
that it was George Fletcher's death as much as anything 
which prevailed upon him to go i and White shews 
his feeling in this letter :-- 

To C. R. L. FLETCHEIt. Tbe Ne'w House. 
,3Iar. ŒE6, 1915. 
The news which ),ou sent us on Wedncsdaï was to tne 
the most terrib!e blow the War bas sent me. G¢orge was 
absolutely, the most splendid character I know; such a 
perfect honesty and directness in conversation, such a fresh 
and genuine temperament, ruade him the companion one 
would bave chosen for an), circumstances. I am tclling 
ïou things },ou already know, but I can't help trying to put 
him into words, in ever] sense of his loss and out great 
sorrow. It was a great dal/in out life Eere when he joined 
us at the New Housc. That was my happiest terre here. 
His personalit]¢ lies stamped on ail the little institutions of 
out life, and his naine is mentioned almost every rime we 
sit down together. He was and is out d'Artagnan. As 
I sa)" that, it strikes me what a long way that comparison 
will go .... 
I ara leaving to take a regular commission this terre. If 
1 go out to Flanders, I hope I ma), catch some of his spirit 
and shew one hundredth part of his courage. 
Match was spent in doubts and questionings ; South- 



Shrewsbury,  9  c- 9  r 3 9 
well first decided» then White. Tlere wcre many character- 
istic details towards tbe end. On his return from a 
visit to the War Office, White--a loyer of  A. A. M.'-- 
telegraphed from Birmingham station: People Iere lire 
extreme simplicity chietly upot products of farms.' One 
night, too, foIIowing upon a long field-day spent in 
colallaand of" his Company, he proposcd and carlicd in thc 
School Debating Society a motion that ' The Classics aie 
the invention of Dr. Kennedy', with its corollary that 
ail archaeological remains were thc work of a tourist 
agency. By a brilliant speech he matie his argument 
plausible to almost the entire house. 
At the end there was a reminiscence of the earlicst da)s 
at Broadlands on an evening (described by one of the per- 
formers 11 the following letter afterwards)when quartcts 
were played in the Abbey Church : 
'White is simply splendidhe fairly revelled in the 
Tschaikowsky Trio. The last timc he played with us, the 
string QEartets, Dvok in C fiat and Schumann in A, 
were done in the Abbey hereand no concert room could 
compete with that building. We filaished ttp at my bouse 
with the Dohnnyi P. F. QEintet and the big posthumous 
D mi. String QEartet of Schubert'sthe room was hot, 
we played in shirt-sleeves» and the small audience sat 
chiefly on the floor. We have r.othing now but the 
recollection» but that is great.' 

And so tl;ey left Shrewsbury, leaving a gap that was felt 
by masters and boys alike. After White's death, one of 
his friends at Shrewsbury wrote of him : 
'Malcolm was quite by himself, the most lovabIe and 
sympathctic and splendid ofmen, and he seemed to combine 
so many of the good points one bas known in oter friends, 



4o Shrewsbury 1 9 IO--I 9 I J" 
in a wonderful way» which one feels would make it impos- 
sible for anyone else to be to his friends what he bas been. 
When I think that he ma}, be dead» it depresses me 
dreadfully» for he was the one person to whom ont always 
felt one could talk about important things that matter and 
find a sympathetic hearer» just in the saine way as he was 
the best possible of pcople with whom to cnjoy all the 
trivial moments of lire." 
And another said :-- 
' I think you know what he was to us--his music and 
his turns, and behind all that his wonderful unselfishness 
and idealism which seemed to grow every day» and always 
seemed to me to acco,mt for his humility and nervousness 
about whether he would do what was best.' 
This is part ot  a letter written to White from Shrewsbury 
during the Summer terre of 95 :-- 
' 1 miss ]Cou and the other Man very much this terre. 
One misses all that sitting round in Phiz's room with 
the other Man sitting deep in a chair» and altcrnating 
between sleep and fits of exploding and unrestraincd laugh- 
ter over his form or « the use of the globes '" or something 
like that» and terrific arguments going on. I wish you 
were both here. "Fhe other Man seems to be ver}, happy 
with the  3th R.B. I had a letter from him this morning 
enclosing one about the Bedford race. He has got an 
amazing faculty o1: being tremendously engrossed in ont 
thing at a rime»ma most enviable quality I think ; and he 
writes as if he'd never done anything or likcd anything 
better than bivouacking on Salisbury Plain. It is very 
wonderful.' 
And» aer Southwell's death» one of his brmer pupils 
said in a letter :-- 
'Unfortunatelï I was never in his form but he took me 



Shrewsbury, x 9  o- 9  " 4 x 
for a terre in French and I can only say that thosc French 
hours were the most delightful hours I havc evcr spcnt in 
study. I liked them to such an extent that I oftcn uscd to 
count the number of hours until the next one. 1 fear I ara 
hot a loyer of books, and it was simply thc pcrsonality of 
your son which ruade those hours so dclightful. I don't 
think I have evcr got to like a master in so short a rime as 
when I began to know your son. I think his pocms wcrc 
very characteristic of him» and thc book ho a rranged," V. s", 
is one of the geins of my bookcasc.' 



CHAPTER II 

E. H. L. S. 

APRL TO OCTOBER I91" 

l'r was an unkind stroke of luck that prev«nted thc two 
Men ti'om joining the saine 13attalion. They ruade ef}brts 
to do so, but there was not room. White had a trying 
pcriod of waiting before he could find work ; but it was not 
long before Southwell was gazetted. On April z+ hc joined 
the i3th Battalion of the Rifle Brigade at Pcrham Down. 
Thtre was one memorable week of Brigade training, 
rccorded in his diary. Then» for more tl-an two months, 
in thc course of which \Vhite and he were at Shrewsbury 
togethcr for one week-end (July IO-Z), he was at work at 
Windmill Hill Camp near Ludgershall. He was happyin 
his work. One of his former pupils later an officcr in the 
Riflc Brigade, says in a Ietter : « I suppose we can't drag 
Mr. Southwell away from his military duties» which he 
scems to love. I can just sec him strctching out his arm 
quitc straight and stitT» palm of tl-e hand turncd upwards 
fingcrs pointing up, so as to llatke a cup of his hand saying 
« It's that» it's that. Very fine man"; or when some un- 
happy private drops his rifle, « Oh not a good man. You 
stand there with a taace like a plate of whoggy porridgc, likc 
some great owl." '... A pleasant reminiscence of V. e. 
On July 2. 9 his Division left for Franc% but he was kft 
behind as  O.C. Details' since bis training had bccn 



E. H. L.S. April tg- 43 
shorter than that of thc otl:er officers in his Battalion. On 
August t6 he was transferred to thc I th Btttalion at Eelhus 
Park Purflcet ; and on Scptcmbcr 19 therc was a reunioe, 
there of the Broadlands houscl:old for a few hours to which 
White allud¢s in his letters. On September 2o Southwell 
moved to South Camp, SeaIbrd ; but k,e was hot therc lbr 
long for while on leave at Worcester on September 3o he 
was ordered to the Front, and lcft on the following da)'. 
These are extracts flore lais Icttcrs and diary, written 
during this time : 

LETTERS 

To HIS FATHE. Shre.wskury. 
March x 9  " 
You will have read the news of Fletchet's deŒEth. I thhak 
you will agree with me tbat the matter is now closed. 1 
must go and take his place. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. ¢Vorcester. 
4pril ar 9. 
A most lovely map-carrying enginc arrived safely two 
days ago (I've been half-imbedded with one of my monthly 
chills)» with straps and harness and buckles and squares 
ruled on it and the dear knows who Vil marry. Thank }'ou 
ver), much indeed. 

To J..F.C. Rcq^as. ço[lege14orcester. 
lpril 2,-,  9  . 
l knew the writing on your welcome letter at once ; and 
you may imagine the delightful wonder with which» whilc 
still in bed and half aslcep (in justice to myself I shall add 
« and preparing to go for an appallingly hearty run before 
breakfast "), I opened the Farcel that came with it. [t is 



44 IL H. L.S. April I9t  
intended» you say for fun, and it rcally does succccd in 
being most frightful fun : I am delighted with it : thank you 
over so much. If I ever dinc in Magdalcn after thc War, 
I shall spend half the evening (on second thoughts, no; 
two-thirds: they feed you rather well there) eating and 
thc test whipping out your ' kindness ' and saying Ç Ah, 
yes ; the year of the War, you know, the year of the War : 
a grcat friend : and the Magdalen arms too, ),ou sec ", over 
and over again. I will indeed. 

To R. A. Klox. l/I/Tndmill Hill CampmLudgershail. 
lpril zg, *9*- 
This is a letter I began quite three weeks ago and noyer 
finishcd, about things for next terre.  I do hope you'll bc 
happy there with my children : l've no doubt you will. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. lIï»dmill Hill Camp. 
'lay 9» 91 $" 
We arc having a great rime herc" thcrc is as far as l 
can sec nothing to complain of except dust» than which I 
bave never seen any thicker in midsummcr. It rises in 
almost solid clouds from a string of thirty or tbrty motor 
lorries, such as one meets constantly ; while the smallest 
party of infantry raise enough to make them very unpleasant 
to follow. But one fcels especially whcn chokcd with dust 
for the first tire% that one has really got into the summer 
and that this kind of show is the only really delightful way 
in which to mect it. 
I bave a feeling that some of t'.e pocms in that book of 
 A Winchester  notion '. 
- P.. A. Knox succeeded him for rive terres as form-master 
of V. 



E. H. 1.. S. May 9" 4" 

mine ought to be publishcd in proof of the proposition that 
boys are hot Philistincs : do you think it a good idea ? 1 
thought some of thc best oncs might bc strung up in a 
volume of ¢ Poets of thc Fifth Form" or something of thc 
kind. Thcrc is no reason why I should have anything to 
do with it be¥ond suggcsting thc poems. 
At prescnt I am in charge of a platoon in a very 
attractive Company (hOt Sir Foster Cunliff's ; but the 
obvious place for me, in the Coy. of one of our Governors, 
was full already). 

To C. R. L. FLF.TCHER. lk'indmill Hill--Ludgershall. 
Arlay 9 I9" 
This lettcr is onc you should have received long ago ; it 
was bcgun at Shrcwsbury» and it is not tbrgetfulness on my 
part that bas made it so slow. For though 1 suppos% no 
one but myself and you (now) will ever know it» I quite 
literally ncver entcrcd the New House, after tke news about 
Gcorge arrived without thinking of him .... 1 doubt if 
any handful of men in any English house ever had from 
their friend a better lead than we .... I suppose it must be 
some consolation» that unshakable conviction that people 
like G«orge and Regic were hot really wasted. Thus when 
I told my form of G«orgc's death and of his last feat, their 
answer waswhat elsc would you have ?a loud burst of 
clapping. Surcly hc would have bcen noless proud of this 
tribute from babcs and sucklings» whom he had roused to a 
t?enzy by his exampl% than of the French flag he risked his 
life to save. And of mcn there is a countless number I 
know» who thank God every daï that the road ahead bas 
becn marked by so unforgettablc a sign. 



46 E.H.L.S. June 191J 
To T. E. B.R rLv.VT, t¢indmill H;II Camp--A»dooE'er. 
une 3o I915" 
One does begin to regard this place as « home" af-ter somc 
wccks ; and I have got very definitely fond of the two 
clumps of trees on the top of out  Windmill Hill', which 
one sights from a distance on returning from a long match. 
It is perfcctly gorgcous here ; evcrything is looking splen- 
did ; the weck's billcting tour wc did in North Wilts a 
fortnight ago was certainly one of the best I bave over had 
anywhcre ; for when l, ou do run into a vallcy with a river 
at the bottom of it in Wiltshire as I know of old» the 
result is as good as anything I know; partly bccause the 
Plain as a wholc is so dry. 
There is no call yct, so I will risk another sheet. And 
indeed I would hot let shcet No. 1 go by itself, talking 
about my own doings al1 the rime and hot saying a word 
of your very fine poem. Yes, I like it vcry much ; it is 
most successfullï ' crcepy ", surely, and I think I could 
bave named thc author if it had been unsigned: it is 
charactcristic. I ara sending it away to put in a little 
volume of loosc-shcet pocms where I kecp the  posthumous" 
works of my poets. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. l¢/7»dmill Hill Camp. 
.Ïgne IO» I9I ç. 
The Man sent me from homc that June was with her 
glancing grasses ;  to which l replied that thcy didn't really 
know cxccpt in (two places l ,ow th[nk ; I said here only 
bet'ore). One is the route we used to go with ail tbe Men 
and Hôj  when we went to see the 'battalions" on a 
' Walter Headlam's Poems i ' June." 
 George Fletcher.There was a field near the Schools» where 
we used to visit the  battalions ' of corn. 



E H. L.S. June x 9 x J" 47 

Sunday aftcrnoon. The othcr is thc fringe of Salisbury 
Plain, whcre the ground comcs down with a shout, onc 
almost fcels, to meet the watcr. For, as you no doubt know, 
the Plain is likc South Africa in summer rather and thc 
streams arc almost dricd up. Still we do keep a strip of 
grcen in a vallcy one toile off with one inch exactly of brook 
in the middle of it, which is enough to throw up thc colour 
of the foot of the valley for a long way against the brown 
grass all round. This morning we went and dug trenchcs 
in it, which was rathcr a dcsecration and frightfully foolish, 
for of coursc wc struck watcr two fcct down, and thc 
digging was much barder than even our ordinary chalk 
digging, and that is no joke. \Ve dug--welI, it's hot 
a ver), intcresting game. 
But the bivoua% oh Man» you would like that. Espc- 
cially out last Brigade trip. We've had three now since l've 
been here. The first was the Hungel'ford-Pewsej/trip on 
which I eithcr did or did hOt expatiate at length to you but 
at any rate I did to some Man or other. The next was 
a wcek ago ; we marchcd about a dozen toiles and bivou- 
acked in a glorious old park. 
If you please, we did Right Flank Guard through a very 
thick wood to hall tb, e Brigade on the road and having 
been on protcctive duty b t, dag (and rather stiff at that) we 
were let off again. So you can guess if we strolled round 
that ficld pretty pleased with lire after a vast dinner 
listening to the Brigade full-fed. 
Since writing the above as Belloc would say !'ve been 
to Marlborough, yesterday. The chapel was, I thought» 
frightfully good» and Man, there were boys about. It was 
perfectllr incredible .... 
Yes» but I must shut up this show now. This is a very 
wonderful place. 



48 E.H.L.S. June  9   
To M. G. rHITF. H/'indmill Hill Camp. 
une  z, I9I 5- 
larllorougto. I went over there yesterday afternoon, and 
there were boys thcre, l looked at them for ages ; the whole 
thing seemed incredible, and I must be dreaming; but 
there the), were, priccless. We lay about and watched a 
cricket match, but I spent still more rime on that steep 
bank nearest the Collegc with my back to the match, 
watching the smaller people carcering about on bicycles 
and shouting : that was very good. It looked ver}, beauti- 
fui, the wholc place, and I liked the chapel andthe Master's 
garden, and the whole visit was good. 
Yes, Man, Uricon ' and June, and 
Qict are clan and chier, and quiet 
Centurion and signifer.  
Good Man. 
Good Lord, no, l'm not eflqcient yet: but one can, I 
think, teach oneself a ccrtain amount, as we gct a very fair 
lot of rime after work's over. I have an idea the men 
want less work now: Musketry Tests and that kind of 
thing in the sun in the aftcrnoon, even for an hour or two, 
make them very slack when they've quite probabl}, done a 
long march and bivouacked the night before. Eut the men 
are good, definitely : anti altogether it's a good business. 
"Fo R. A. Kt4ox. l,t'Tndmill Hill Camp. 
eune z7, 1915. 
Dcar Super-Man, 
VVell, I sent a rcply to }'ou in rather a wild rush: 
unredeemed as far as I remember b}' the least touch of 
cheerfulncss, but I hapFened to have been made rather 
' A. E. Housman, _ Sbroiobire Lad t On Wenlock Edge.' 
- John Masefield, Salr-ltzater Ballads ¢ On Malvern Hill.' 



E. H. L.S. June 91- 49 
particularly nosta]gic by a recent visit to Maflborough and 
your documents on the top of it, and I can only say that 
tle lines were as sincere as I could make them and did not 
feel ' written to order" ! 
This statement of mine reads rather like that of the cook 
in Vice Versa, all from my own point of view. 
Give all the men my love, and Whitfield dall have a 
letter, and V. B are very fine fellows, and so are K.'s Army, 
only they're rather tired just now, and so ara hot I, for 
keeping going is only very easy when you haven't left large 
portions of you in other places! I believe that is rather 
rot, and it would read just as well with the negative out ! 
It won't do, anyway, to consider the point. 

To C. E. N. SVRRIDGE.  II/ïndmill Hill Camp. 
Ju»e 30, Igx 5. 
This is splendid of you : I was tremendously pleased to 
see your handwriting the other day (too long ag% l'm 
afraid you're thinking) when I came into the Mess. I had» 
ofcourse, received a large batch of documents from 
Mr. Knox, which I read very carefully ; but the worst o 
it was that he demanded a reply  in the saine language. 
This may be all very well, but my ideas have been rather 
narrowed down to unskifful manoeuvres with my platoon ; 
and the state of mind described in the song--  « What "s the 
next word of cornmand ? '" said the Colonel" (and how l'm 
to know» if he didn't» I can't think), is not very good for 
sending messages in a foreign language. However» I 
happened to be feeling rather particularly lonely that 
evening, so I sat clown and scrawled a rather solitary little 

* Formel'ly in V. 13. - Page 66. 
-s E 



)'o E.H.L.S. June 
message, which at any rate I meant rather dreadfully in 
earnest. I oly hope some of it scanned! 
I see the poets are still going strong" Mr. Kno:¢ sent 
me one of the 'works' of a new poet the otber day. 
Crosfield's l¢vite Ha»se looks well in print, but I would 
rather bave my own copy in the author's handwriting, 
any day. 
We bad our inspection by the King about a week ago ; 
and it was rather impressive, naturally. About 5,ooo 
men on a square mlle or two make a sight well wortb 
seeing. Of course 1 thought of my poets when the cavalry, 
with their distinctive (rather a good word, tbat ; it laoics 
as if I could te]l any cavalry from infantry by tbeir dust,. 
like the Boers!) and rather thrilling dust-cloud, came 
swinging round the dorner, a toile or two away from our 
position on the ]eR of the line. John Masefield, z I mean, 
and the remarkable poems about' The Procession' they 2 
wrote, and all that. 
Well, you all seem to be going very strong there. 1 
suppose you do ail exist really ; but sometimes I have to 
thmk horribly hard, to believe it. As I told somebody the 
other day, I believed it hard all one afternoon when I went 
over to Marlborough ; but of course the letters which reach 
me with the Shrewsbury post-mark, though I must say 
people are awfully good to me and I greet their letters with 
t«rrific delight, do sometimes seem to corne from another 
world altogether ! 
Now then, we can't have this sort of thing. If I'm going 
to get gloomy, I'd better shut up at once, and I will. 
Thank you a thousand times for your splendid ferrer, and 
pleas« do it again ! 

z 8alt_I¢,rater Ballads Cavalier.' 2 The Members of V. . 



E. H. L.S. July 9*r r* 
To R. F. BAILEY. Wi»dmill Hill Camp. 
To-day has been rather fuu in alazyway. I took on the 
Orderly Oce job for some one who wanted a Sunday off, 
so I was stuck in camp, first boiling in the biggest heat 
we've had, and then getting thoroughly wet ail of a sudden 
while dismissing the Old Guard. It is rather good fun 
after a har week» a week-end in camp» and l've put in all 
of them up to date except one, when I tan oer to near 
Salisbury once. Good place, that ; and I must try and ste 
the town itself quictly one day. 
I ara becoming rather like a cabbage here. Ont goes 
on very happily, living a healthy animal existence, and the 
importance attached fo one's food on bivouacs after a long 
march is rather scandalous. 
I could make a gd range-card of priceless memories on 
this landscape tween lines N.W. and N.E. S.W. lies the 
sweting match to Bulford Range, and S. is Perham Downs 
Camp, which is all buts and therefore a beastly insult to 
the country-side. But I cannot think of whzt I regard as 
' My Section' of our prospect without a thriI1. 
It is now Sunday aernoon, July 3rd ; not very good 
therefore» for you should have had this before. Tell Kitch 
I couldn't by any device reach Henley yesterday ; and I 
don't even now know the result of the race.  For the first 
time, and» I supFose » the only time I wanted one» no Sunday 

paper is procurable. 
To M. G. WIta-E. 
Man, 
EoEotional Indigestion. 
Frightfu!ly tru% that. 

14/'indmill Hill Camp. 
a7uly z+,  9  5- 
Ah yes, Man: statcment. 
Yes, of course what you say about 
• Against Eton. 
E OE 



-2 E.H.L.S. July I9I 
poetry is in my experience too. Equally of course I refer 
facts to poetry rather than the other way. This is obscure 
and I will explain. Now R. L. S. in a lovely» lovely passage 
(' Apology for ldlers ' in Virginibus p»erisque--you gave it me, 
you remember) says : « Books are all very well in their way» 
but they are a mighty bloodless substitute for Iife." Now 
if I believe that» it is because I have seen it .in a book ; 
and that I think is rather my attitude to pretty well 
everything. So that so far from agreeing with R. L. S. I 
seem more than ever in a position to contradict him. Man 7 
that is rather where we do corne in 7 you know" I believe 
that everybody 7 who has his little finger in this pie 7 really 
is in a position to dictate to his favourite poets. Not 
bad. No. 

MANIFESTO 
by -_nd Lieut. E. H. L. S. 
Commdg. Details» 3th Bn. R.B. 
l. Situation. It's all light--I happened to see two lines or 
The Poet in a magazine» after  months. 
OE. Stateme»t. When [ read Homer I gesticulate; over 
VIRGIL I kneel. 
E. H. L.S. 
OEnd Lieut. 

Copy No. x to Lt. \Vhitfield. 
-to Lt. White. 
» . 3 to Lt. Howson. 



E.H.L.S. August xgxy Y3 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Be]bus Park--Purfleet. 
.4ug.' 18, I9I . 
Out of the eight or so they had to pick one to wind up 
camp, return tents» receive l:ospital-discharged men, finish 
up accounts» and generall}' run a fatigue part}, to clean up 
the place and pass an  exam.' by the Sanitary Inspcctor-- 
we did this with some success--and I was picked for the 
job. So long as it hasn't thrown me back more than a 
fortnight or so I shan't mind so much--though as you can 
guess it wasn't exactly tunny to sce thc rail of the Division 
disappear on thc da}, of embarkation, round the corner to 
the station--because l've Icarnt more about the adminis- 
tration of the Army in two weeks than in ail thc preceding 
months. This is some consolation» and as a marrer of 
fact I can't pretend in the least that I didn't rather enjo¥ 
the fortnight in which I was in sole command of about 
twenty-five mena small handful» but an independent show. 
The worst days I ever knew were belote that, when (after 
being told within a month ofjoining and again later» that 
I was going out) I just heard that it was ail what the Army 
calls a  wash-out ", and so I'd got to stay behind. 
There is still a great deal to do (I've just started learning 
German--rather late, but l'm getting on), so I must wind 
up this lengthy explanation ofmy very curious movements. 
I suppose it is needless to repeat to you what I said in a 
letter to Shrewsbury hot so long ago that I have for all 
these months seen everytbi»g in terres of Shrewsbury. I 
bave seen a bill» perhaps ; and I reflect that it would not do 
for the folk around the Wrekin» even though it did bave a 
Roman Camp at the top. Or a path from the bcd of the 
Avon» up towards Sidbury, and I remember that the track 

* The 13th Battalion Rifle Brigade left {or France on July z 9. 



'4 E.H.L.S. August 95 
trom the boat-bouse to the scl;oels bas a better curve upon 
it and the feet of more aderable people. 
Or I bave been with «B' Company on Church Parade every 
Sunday for months» and the wrench was an almost physical 
one with which I had to tear myself away fiom the belief 
that I was in Chapel» and had been there every minute of 
the service. 
Or lastly, there was that last Sunday night of the terre. 
¥ou wcre going, and my Battalion were going» in the same 
week. I started for a rather lonely wa]k, thercfore, and the 
farthcr I wcnt thc more the 37 th Division shouted. They 
shouted for three hours pretty well each night for the last 
week. 
This time they just sang the simple refrain which 
goes 
Here we are ! here we are ! here we are again 
Hullo ! Hullo ] 
Hulo ! Hullo ! Hulloh-oh ] (Repeat.) 
This song went forjust z½ hours without change : it wcnt 
on louder and louder, like a plot to break the hearts of the 
 stay-behinds'. It was about the rime when you would be 
giving your final address» • probably all extra good one (I 
was not disappointed: but how you could read the poem 
through without a break I cannot imagine" I would not 
trust myself with a rcitation of that beautiful thing in 
public for a fortune per lineS. 
So I went oI, not sorry on tl;e whole to be alon% and 
blundered along towards the Artillery Camp, until finally)ou 
came out of Chape], and I came back over the hill. 

 « The Elm and the River': Fublished in Siorervsbury Fabies. 



E. H. L.S. August I 9 I )" )" )" 

To J. F. C. RICHARDS. 15th R.B. 
Aug. I9» I9I 5. 
Look her% l've only got rive minutes and your letter 
was so splendid that I hardly know which part of it to be 
most grateful for. I seize this moment as the only possible 
chance l'll get for days, probably. But I mustn't omit to 
say you shall have a photograph if I ever get one» and I 
nust have one of you. And also J. M.'s ' Smoke-stack ' 
poem : try Mr. Whitfield with it. Yes I agree with you ; 
it's priceless. Lutener's sociçty is a magnificent scheme ; * 
one of the best things l've l.ead of. 
This is a rotten lettel b probably the worst and the most 
illegiHe of ail l've sent from tle R.B. ; and that's saying a 
terrific big deal. You must forgive it» for the rush is rather 
awful. One's got a terrible lot to learn, and hot long to 
learn it in. You're a very fine correspondent indeed» and 
a very excellent person» and I wish I could see you» and any- 
way you must rite like the devil» if you will pardon the 
expression. Not good : please make the necessary excuses 
for me to yourself. 

To Mts. WHITFIELD. Belhus Park. 
.,,qug. -6 IgI 5. 
I was very sorry to hear from Jack the news about his 
brother « in Gallipoli. It seems tobe a standing order h 
the R.B. that no officer's mess shall contain any writing- 
paper when most needed except reams of the black-edged 
variety ; but somehow I cannot bring myself to feel that a 

 « Poetry and prose distributing agency»' started at Shrewsbury. 
2 znd Lieut. G. H. Whitfield» I4th Sikhs  killed in Gallipoli 
on August 8,  91 . 



)-6 E.H. L S. September  9 )" 
letter such as this, from the meanest of your son's brother- 
oflïcers, should be written on that. If anything, I would 
have it gilt-edged. I suppose when the War is over it will 
be known better what extraordinary things that peninsula 
bas seen done by those very brave men. Meanwhile, even 
without knowing your son, I was more moved than I could 
ever sa), by Jack's beautiful suggestion that he remembered 
his School's motto. 1 Indeed we later comers have a terribly 
high standard to follow. 
To CANON WILSON. 8eptemker, 1917. 
I heard from my father this morning the news which, I 
suppose, is sure to bring you many letters from people far 
more worthy to send them than l. And ),et somehow I 
feel that being the most insignificant of his brother-officers 
does give me the right to ask if" I may just add a short 
message of sincerest sympathy. I don't know whether itis 
very sentimental and toolish or not; perhaps itis, but I 
never can rid myself» when I hear such news as that of 
Hugh's death in action» of the strange desire, not only to 
sympathise with those he leaves behind, but to get up and 
cheer! Was it really ill-timed, I was asking only last 
week-end, in my organist colleague at Shrewsbury to play 
no less a thing, when Lord Roberts died, than the c Halle- 
lujah Chorus ' ? Cerainly I feel myself that the thing was 
rightly looked at then, and I bave never doubted it since. 
Itis a terrible thing, and also a very glorious one, for later 
comers to see the 'monumentum aere perennius' of their 
friends' examples grow higher and more inimitable day 
after day: one feels one would like to button-hole them, 
where they watch their successors, and plead ' Don't forget 
the standard is a little higher, since you went away '. 
z « Deo dame dedi." 



E. H. L.S. April  9  )" )" 7 
To C. A. ALINGTON. 8outh Camp--Seaford. 
Sept. z z,  9  . 
Well, this camp is magnificent for everybody. The mcn 
are all in buts, splendidly fed, waterproofed overhead (unlike 
so many Battalions last winter)» near the _ea air and the 
chance of a bathe, ncar a town which ought hot to be bad 
for them if they behav% and best of ail near the Downs : 
these I hailed with tremendous delight, for I had fer rather 
stifled in the close country on the Essex flats after an 
incredible summer on the Plain. Do you know Alfriston, 
I wonder, its church and ' clergy bouse" and its inns ? We 
walked there yesterday evening and fell much in love with it. 

DIARY 

THE FIRST PARADE. 
2qpril z+, Saturday. 
Ceremonial, as usual on Saturday morning. A fairly 
easy job for the platoon commander» as he has practically 
nothing to do. Indeed I wonder whether I gave a com- 
mand per hour beyond an occasional 'Make Way' when 
we turned about, dclivered probably in tb, e half-grutk half- 
deprecating voice of the new subaltern. We did not carry 
swords ; in fact, hardly any of us possess such things so 
that even that was an ordeal saved, for we have no idea 
yet of the salure with the sword. It resolved itself for me 
into a kind of painless nightmare of shouting. 
I pass on now to the ceremonial of the following Satur- 
day ; for though it has no terrors, the keenest barrack-square 
enthusiast would hardly think it a very thrilling subject on 
which to stay for long. The main points of interest were 
few and obvious. First, I suppose, cornes the realisation 
which one gets, and which one would hardly believe till 



y8 E.H.L.S. April I9I y 
got in such a FeacefuI performance, that this sort of drill 
is a tremendous test of tircd mon. At this date the men 
were undoubtedly getting a bit stale, and I hope before we 
go out they will get a good test: boasting little or no 
knovledge of soldiering» 1 claire a little competence in the 
art of recognising a tired man. 
It is, however, ai1 very well to run dovn the men who 
run these things» but there's a something about them ..., 
as William Bent Pitman would say. I agree with A. C. P. M. 
that the bugles immediately behind one (whcre I seldom 
get them) are apt to be ratler tiresome, but they do l:elp 
to pull a tired crowd togethcr .... ]XTo» I will hear 
nothing against the bugles ; it is so easy to read them in 
terres of Simonides ! 

P¢.RHaM. S;mday» .,4pril z . 5 a.m. 
They do hot tell you things in the Army. This I had 
(hot from the prince of Pheneon under the seven towers» 
nor even the tribesman of Vectis» as W. A. F. B.' said in 
his poem on ' Rome') from Milo M. Cudmor% the gallant 
artillery soldier» a month before joining, and from many 
other sources. This was my first real proofofit. 
Bulford Ranges. The days we spent here were rather 
ordinary ; a certain amount of monotony was inevitable, 
but no one couId pretend we had a hard rime. Later we 
became rather mcchanical alzout the whole thing : but the 
morning marches» in the early days of the dust, when its 
taste meant summer and the months had hOt tired any one 
of it  the various ways by which we went in and out among 
the slopes of Windmill» Pickpit, and Clarendon Hills (I 
don't think the problem was ever proved to be solv¢d); 
the halt under the trees past Tidworth, up the hill and 
before the farm- these are t.hings I just find it worth while 
 Formerly a member of V. 



E H. L.S. lay xg)" )'9 
remembering. Otherwise as I say we were machines 
either marking in the Butts or hanging about waiting to 
fie our courses. 
It was not really amusing, though 1 used to get very angry 
at the thought arising in anybody's head that we had struck 
the hard lire yet! So I will hOt, I think, write of it any 
more. 

A BRIGADE TRAINING WEEK. 
,lay 1 o-I ç. 
I look back on the middle of this wcek as one of the 
happiest I bave ever known. And I think it is only rimes 
like that one that a diary should be allowed to recall so 
I must not let that week go. 
_Monday therefore. Parade at g.3o, Field Service Order. 
It rained all day and we marched in Burberry outside 
uniform and pack outside that. I found the pack very 
comfortabl% rather surprisingly so, Not much of that 
march sticks in my memory except the valley of 8halbourne 
which I was sure would on a fine day be perfectly lovely 
and rather definitely vowed to visit later. It lies on the 
right of the N. toad to Hungerford rather as the hollow 
below the Castle at Edinburgh bllows Prince's Street (though 
why the two should be compared is past wondering !). 
We got in about 5, and after some delay found our 
billets.  C ' were in a barn and got drenchd to the skin. 
* B ' were in a schoolm The Ebenezer' it was called  a sort 
ofchapel-school building on the R. of a road L. from main 
street going clown. I very luckily got for myselfa gloriously 
comfortable room--double four-poster bed and all in a 
little pub. (it was no more) opposite the rtst ofthe Company. 
Their feding was rather troublesome» for they had to trek 
off to the hotel for their meals. But I think they slept 
more or les» comfortably ; at least they were dry. 



6o E.H.L.S. May 
Tuesda),. This day was a blank .... The afternoon 
being blank again the men were allowed to stroll 
about, though I ara glad to think some of my men got 
a little sleep, as I recommended. As for me, I ruade 
myself scandalously fresh for the night's march by going 
straight to bed and sleeping for two hours. Following 
that came a strolI with Fraser, and this was one of the 
great scenes. 
Hungerforcl Church is right on the edge of the Kennet 
and Avon Canal ; and its perpendicular towcr rising over 
the green with the water beyond, and west of that the set- 
ting sun, and an old lock or two farther on E., and finally 
the bridge, ruade pictures which I could hardly leave. 
This was one scene and yet it was tobe eqmlled again 
and again &fore the \VonderfuI \çeek was over. 
 . . The Night 3larch. The R.B. was to go on ahead and 
' B' Coy. to piquet the village of Froxfield. This we made 
rather a mess of and I leave it. \Ve then proceeded to 
match rather wearily for some miles mainly uph]ll towards 
Savernake Forest. We did hot go through much of it, 
and there followed an attack through the Forest, which 
I would hot put down at all (obeying my own rule)if 
the miserable futility of that one hour was hot rather 
amusing when seen through the glorious haze of the 
following forty-eight hours. 
\Ve formed close column of platoons, I remember and 
blundered along through the wood at about 3-% v«h«n it was 
dark ; and finally, after hearing various shots put round us 
with great equanirnity» we were l-alted and lay doevn ill 
frost-covered opening while the dawn came. After a long 
time we moved off, and it was nct, I think, until this point 
that I began to feeI intolerably well and hearty. 
came quickly through the rest of the wood, and only then 



E. H. L.S. May i9i )- 6I 
I realised, looking under tl:e trees across the harebclls 
that Oberon had been there ail night. 
Vilcot Vicarage. This was where I was billeted. All 
this period round me with nothing but a tremendous sense 
of relief, partly at the end ofthe march and partly at hearing 
I was wcll billeted, no doubt. And so I was feeling very 
well all the time. Then the food for thc men vas very late 
in arriving ; and in fact this foo2 question spoilt the week 
rather for the men 1 fear. I procured a few biscuits for 
some of my men, which was all I could find in the village 
at the rime, and those few of thcm seemcd grateful ; but 
it was rather maddcning to fecl that nothing could be done 
for the men for so long while my own future existence for 
twenty-four hours (as we then thought) was so scandalously 
assured ofcomfort. Finally, after lying about in the meadow 
beyond the farm tbr some rime with some of the men all 
of us being by now rather clmer I cleared off to my 
Vicarage and had a large breakfast. Mr. and Mrs. Hoyland 
were extraordinoErily good to us--Mackworth Bamford» 
and mewthe whole rime. The morning was naturally 
blank but I shall not easily forger the sudden transition 
from the long march to the garden behind the Vicarag% 
where we lay about undcr the hedge and Iooked sleepily 
over the long s low water-meadows and watched the con- 
soling Eng!ish mist wrapping itself round the English trees. 
No soldiering ever troubled the serenity ofthat little land- 
scape, nor the old church tower behind ; for the whole of 
that valley has just accepted very quietly the memory of the 
men who died for it in year after year before we ever saw 
it, and every one, I felt was another perfectly present, and 
therefore entirely hidden and unsuspected guarantee of that 
incredible reace. 
It is so hard to choose one's pictures ; I have written 



62 E.H.L.S. May I9I )" 
ten pages already in this hour which is half a dozen too 
many at least. Anyhow I nust omit our Outpost Scheme 
for Officers in the afternoon, where we went and planted 
imaginary piquets a]ong tbe canal for toiles, and wherc I 
enlarged a map of our little section of the bridge. 
Tea in the Vicarage garden, and then a vast letter to 
Maurice Brown, followed by a mild ecclesiastical talk with 
the Vicar. Ail this was good, and so was the evening .... 
So next day we said good-bye effusively on leaving for our 
rearguard action towards Manningford Bruce. And then 
came another great moment ; when we had been gone an 
hour we heard that we should hot bivouac that night but 
retur» to illets .... I suppose there have been more de- 
lighted men than we three for the following minutes ; but 
I should ]ike to have met them. The rearguard action that 
day was followed by a discourse from the Brigadier, and in 
the calm of the Vicar's study--we returned to his arms in 
the garden almost with a shout ofdelight--[ noted various 
lessons we were told to ponder. Nothing shall induce me 
to rewrite them here. But the  Wood Bridge' over tFe 
Avon, which flies past as usual, waving its reeds like tongues 
of tire, was defended by No. 7 platoon with remarkab2e 
placidity ; and it would be rash to forger the hour or so 
which we spent there. 
It was during this evening that I walked part of the way 
with Leggatt towards his (D) billets at Sharlcott, and so 
back over the fields: and it was there that I went with 
opening eyes down an English lane .... 
The next day was what Belloc would call « A day without 
salta trudge'. The attack done between Pewsey and 
Ludgershall did hot find us in the fight at all, and we did hot 
g¢t instruction on it with maps as I should lave liked (and 
boped for daily, on such occasions); but none of us will 



E. H. L.S. May 191 )- 6 3 

soon forget the trudgc up tLe big Pewsey hill : how the men 
did growl ! The wbo]e day was very hot» and the bugles 
finished us off by bringing us one toile into camp full tilt 
from the Collingbourne Road. 
But itis not of these happenings that I want to writ% 
only my pen is so cursedly obstinate. Itis of those few 
memories that I want remindingmthe Savernake wood 
country at dawn» the stars over the night march» the water 
of the Avon, the church by the canal, the rive minutes in 
the lan% the dear Vicar and out return to his home, the 
bugles as we entered Pewsey from Wilcot on the last 
morning, the morning in the « Ebenezer' school,--\Vilcot 
above all» above all Wilcot: those are the things which 
mark the Wonderful Week» and which in any future 
inconveniences (such as I must be excused for expecting) 
I hope and pray for courage to remember. 

AN EVENING IN EaRLY MAY. 
This evening I strolled into the church at Ludgershall, 
the little church that lies over the way from my first billet» 
beyond the railway bridge. On entering I was immediately 
confronted with a coat of arms on the north wall. I take 
no omens whatever in this little business» which is perhaps 
curious. So it was only with a certain rather numbed calm- 
ness that I read its Motto, 
 _Moriendo livo "» 
and turned round saying to myself»  That no doubt will 
do very well' : and then opposite me on the souh wall from 
another coa came ou the promise, 
 Resurgam ". 
« And hat too ' I said»  will suit me admirably.' 



64 E.H.L.S. May 9Y 

SIDBURY CAMP. 
Thursday evening, 2lay z 7. 
It was a rather easy day, and therefore it was that I took 
it upon myself to walk and run to the top of Sidbury Hill. 
Itis not easy to pass the smallest bridge» I think, in any 
country ; but I resisted the temptation to stay on the little 
bridge over the Bourne, with the whitest may-blossom in all 
England at its side, and two long strips of the deepest green 
along its banks, the envy of the brown thirsty Plain for 
toiles arou nd .... 
Well, I might have known they would have been there. 
Of course they had struggled to the top, 
The Roman line, the Roman order, 
of »vhom John Masefield sang on Malvern Hill. From no- 
where else would they sooner catch sight of my ancestors 
panting in skins and strange dyes across the plain ; and 
here ifanywhere they seem to bave decided to do the thing 
well. For the ditch (it is theirs, I suppose) is very deep and 
regular, and I for one was glad I had hot to attack over it. 
But I was not really thinking war that evening, for my head 
was full of mcmories of the Shropshire hills, and of 
those other Romans who with all their troubles 
Are ashes under Uricon. 
And so with reverence upon my head I clambered down 
into the lowest part of the fosse, and reminding myself 
' This is a marrer which demands a "certain pr¢cision" '» 
I straightened my cap, put on my gloves, and tbund from 
the sun a line as nearly S.E. as I could make it ; and so 
facing Italy, our new ally, and standing strictly at attention» 
I saluted the Roman Soldier. 



E. H. L. S. 
"0. C. Detaiis." Salisbury Plain 
August, 



E. H. L.S. May 191)." 
ANY CHURCH PARADE. 
(As seen by me between Apr. -3 and June -7 the first 
Sunday bar two inoculation days when I was absent.) 
 The Batt. will parade for Divine Service to-morrow 
at 9.3 ° a.m. South of the lines ofthe xoth R. Fus. 
Markers will be on the ground at 9-+5 a.m. and should 
know about what frontage the Batt. will take up." 
The chants were foolishly changed for unknown ones» 
once ; but otherwise we bave stuck to the saine chants. 
Here of course every man must have his own great 
memories- I can do no morc than jot down a fw of mine. 
V«nte.    - 
I hum it) w ï/  _ L(sic) 
a leap from the tenor part which for some reason gives me 
great satisfaction in the early verses. 
The Benedictus has less appeal anyhow but I may as well 
remember its chant: 
% 
* Here» E  I would hum : it is a smple pleasure 

SoMv. LAa'rN VF.rsEs. 
The little poem which follows was sent to V. B through 
R. A. K. June .3rd. He had got them ail to send me a 
Latin letter and invited a reply. I little guessed that within 
lSS F 



6 E.H.L.S. June  9  " 
a fortnight I should be standing actually before them once 
more and reading on that Sunday açternoon with intoler- 
able audacity surely some of these notes from my diary. 
About the versification it is not for me to guess but God 
knows those lines were written «0» am0re. 
And they went as I should say to them were I reading 
them out» like this : 
Seu per amica traham Gallorum gramina cursum 
Sive agar optatos visere Dardanidas 
Non procul omnis ero: semper vos inter» amici 
Consita mens miro ducet amore moras. 
Vera loquor: nec me ulla premunt iastidia Martis 
Sed caret a»pectu mens domus alm% tuo! 
Cure» pueri via dat nobis nocturna laborem 
Vestra tenet--memini--quam procul astra sopor! 
Me licet hortentur comitum tria milia cantu 
Cure cadit in carmen pulverulenta dies 
At procul est £acies--di! quam dilectameorum» 
Solus et in tenebris» ei mihi» solus eo. 
Dabam in castris apud Ventosae Mulae Collera» Et Supra» 
A.D. XI. Kal. Iul. A. U. C. MMDCLXVIII. 

une zg 191 . Tuesday morning 8.3 o-  I. I ç. 
To-day is a holiday for us and several others in  B' Coy.» 
by intimation of De Laesso% while various odd jobs are 
being done ; but I must hOt go right away. 
So I take the glorious opportunity to go for a solitary 
walk and think over the memories of my Bapton week-end. 
Up the crunching, gravel and chalk therefore, right on the 
back of the swooping road to ColIingbourne Ducis  in 



E. H. L.S. June IgI )- 67 
bounds' again to-day (aftcr a short attack of measles or 
somcthing), obviously for my most particu!ar consolation. 
First to thc rigbt at thc cross-roads, to tbe Hungcrford 
Road : a direct inspiration in itself surcly, for it is the road 
to the Wond.erfid 'Week, and rccalls tbe first Day of the 
Pack. But I stop on the railway bridge, for that line goes 
off; round thc corner to thc right» to Marlborough and 
another memory. A mystcrious enginc is puffing up the 
line round the corner, as they uscd to whcn I watched thcir 
dreadfully enchanting advancc from Warminster to thc 
Bapton lcvel crossing. Ah, thcre over my left shouldcr 
cornes the Ioth R.F» with full band. Ail's wcll ; thcy arc 
going straight down to Collingbourne .... Thcy have 
stopped playing now, precisely at the fourth telegraph post 
from the cross-roads; but their voices corne up the hill; 
they are good men, the i oth .... So I go on up thc 
hill. Here is the top; and I wish I could go on along it 
tbr miles but this is not Sh:opshire» and thc road dips to 
the right as fast as it climbed. To my left front four two- 
horsc plougbs cross and recross the field ; again this is hot 
Shropshire, for they thread the valley instead of marking 
the skyline. The rain has washed the country into green 
and white and gold ; it has rained slightly for three days, 
for the first time since May t tth, and the piles of thick 
dust are quiet at last: I had thought the thing impos- 
sible .... ' Rcmember now,' I round myself now singing  
I do not precisely know why .... 
But I have reached the bottom of the va!lcy now, and 
turned to the left down the road to N. Collingbourne 
Ducis; and I bave bcen hcre beforc. For it was here that 
I came weeks ago, one great evening when I eut my dinner 
to walk ri-oto Co!lingbournc Wood to C. Ducis, when I 
had lain on the eastern edge of the vallcy and looked up 
F  



68 E.H.L.S. June , ,  
towards N.W. and the Shropshire hilIs. That was also 
taï first entrï into C. D. church where I hung for long, 
buried deep with it behind the chestnuts .... 
Voices from the bouses at the edge of the village, fift), 
yards away at thc bend in the road. Just here I smelt wet 
ha)'» and like thc clder blossom be),ond the bill it sent me 
tbr a moment back to Lichfield. So I passed down the 
village from the N. and into the church gain. There 
are no scrvices on week-days here» for I ruade a scandalous 
inquir)' in the registr), in the vestrï. But I sta)'cd there a 
long time .... This was what I bave wanted for weeks, 
« An ,our for peace and for forgetting "» and I round it. 
I do not remember anything quite so definite since the days 
of Lichfield Chapcl," when I was hardl)' less old at x t than 
I ara now. Of course I took the Notre-Dame Seat, half- 
way up on the right and against a pillar; but hardlï in 
Paris» I think» was it that so greatly 
The deep peace burned by me alive. 
It was St. Peter's Da)r» b)' the wa)'» and the lessons were» to 
say the leas% not insignificant. 
Vell» « out of the little chapel I burst "» as the)' sa),, and 
found it raining steadily but almost invisiblï. Sidbur), 
Camp through a Scotch mist was really rather more fun 
that I had bargained for; so I have seen Holïrood Palace, 
almost completely hidden in August at a few hundred )'ards. 
And so home» and this walk has been a great cure for 
anything like depression» which I was faintly beginning to 
feel before I went away on Friday. Now I ara» I believe, 
completelï recovered. 
But not a word of Bapton Manor;" and that was what I 

' The Chapel of the Theological College (his former home). 
-" His mother's home. 



E. H. L.S. July 9 " 

69 

had it in mind to set down, whcn I sprang up the chalk 
and flint of the early journey, driven and drawn along its 
veins by the inconceivable power of the long, throbbing 
Plain. 

yuly 3, 9ç • 
Like to some niggard drowsy cupbcarer 
Slighting a wither'd queen in Babylon, 
Some proud, lost love of Asia, lonelier 
Than his lone lord, she falsely lean'd upon: 
And oh! her cheek is hollow, and her eyes 
Watch him, yet hope no favour from his turning :-- 
So Death, appriz'd of our young treacheries, 
Shall hold his glass from old lips palely burning. 
Then let me tastc in rime his golden stream, 
Not id]y traffic with lean years to be; 
And out beyond the banquet, I shall sec 
Where led my chosen journey, and my star's gleam, 
And know, who set no limit to my dream, 
No House of Doubt in my Astrology. 

TuE HUNGERFORD ROADCoLLINGBOURNE Ducis ROUND» 
AGAIN. 
This bas become m), most usual haunt ; and in many 
many journe),s I bave corne fo perceive a ccrtain g]orious 
sureness about this scenc. 
I bave seen that road or the right edge of" it rather f"fore 
the top o Windmi]l Hill at 7. o in the mornin» when I 
have been up there to look at the Plain before a long da),  
and I bave noticed the cudous diièÆeaces of light on a road 
at dii%rent hors. Ara I wrong or is the white road on[), 
white when you stand bctween it and the sun ? 
Then thcrc was that long da), of rain» when the Brigade 



7o E.H.L.S. .[uly 1 9 1 j" 
Sports were ruined, and when I had been rather f.dthfully 
reprimanded at Orderl)' Room in the morning. It was 
quite worth while going m)" round, that evening, all alone 
in the downpour and a leaking Burbeiry. Qite worth 
while clambering up that slope, though for somc reason 
I was so occupied with cacophonous encores of 
Who so besct him round 
(we had it at Shrewsbury the previous Sunday)that t-or a 
toile or so I hardly realised where I was. Then suddenly 
l became aware of the top of the bill, and began to make 
phrases, as I watched it in the wind, about the sheepish, 
irrcsolute demeanour of the stripling corn. It was on that 
evening, too, that I got into tlae hollow to the east of C. D. 
and excited myself to a great state of dclight by loud and 
much-varied dec!amations of John Masefield's ' Sea-Fever' 
(' I must down '). 
I suppose it was two days later that I discovered the 
dingle which leads through the corn to C. D. from the hill, a 
shorter and equally delightful way ; marked, and I think 
wrote to Ross about the blue flints on the black plougb, 
like cut glass on a marble tablethey are to be seen on the 
right as you descend that lane  saw the wind playing at 
bill-country with tl:e grass at the top of the roadit is 
only in real hill-country that the short grass pulls like a 
dog on a leash; and finally, after watching the moon rail 
like a rocker behind Windmill Hill, s!ept gloriously out- 
side my tent under the stars. 

MoRE oF  MY SUND&Y AT HOME '. 
It is II.0 on a boiling July Sundaï morning, and | 
am Orderly Oflcer. The view orme, dutics I take at this 
moment Icads me to plant a chair just outside the Mess 
Tent, facing north-west, and to take in a little oç my sur- 



E. H. L.S. July 1 9 1 - 7 ! 
roundings. A good chance : everything is standing still for 
my admiration. Thc horses of the ioth R.F. arc motion- 
less as usual on the side of the hill ; they hardly flick 
their tails» those lean woodert Sabbatarians. Nobody 
troubles his head now about the dreary bayonet-gibbets on 
thc left skyline near the wood» nor about the rather silly- 
looking wire entanglcments to their right. Except perhaps 
the sentry over what I keep calling the Watcr-Tower :x I 
dare say he holds strong vicws on other men's Sundays  at 
any rate the flash of his bayonet this morning (during thc 
 Benedictus'» I remember)» when he turned his corner» 
looked as if he had decided to tolerate no competition. 
Not much movement in our lines» nor from the oth and 
* 3 th facing me ; and I expect the 6oth are equally sleepy in 
the hollow. An occasional car strolls over the green ; and 
as 1 write some casy crickters saunter out to their gara,'. 
On the near brow of the hill across the road a few sheep 
proclaim the Downs ; to tleir right is the Everley Road» so 
easy of marching; and I can just see the cross-roads» wlere 
the 1'4. Road runs up towards Collingbourne» shaking 
our little worries off its heels .... 
And so the rime passes» until I go my rounds in hall an 
hour. A lazy transport wagon rolls by ; a dazed-looking 
passenger, train puits up the line; the green flags wave 
sleepily in the cooling breeze wl-ich is just arriving from the 
South ; the great s!opes ahead of me call  N. \Vest» N. 
West' through the blue ç and all around me rises the slow 
incense of tl'e Downs» to remind me with a choke in the 
throat of the stillness that is only a few toiles away on two 
sides at the very foot of the adorable vale. 
(Read to V.B. on my "week-end :istt to Shre'wsbury» Sunday, 
uly  th ; "with a change in the Iast t'wo lines.) 
' A reminiscence of Shrewsbury. 



72 E.H.L.S. July 
We have just corne back from what is almost certainly the 
last Church Parade in England ofthe i i ith Brigade. Thcre 
was a Celebration this morning, in the big C. E. tcnt for 
the first time» at which I date say sixt)' attended. The 
week belote in the little tent there were six. The 
service was hot quite the best, as we had hOt the brass band 
of the  oth but only their fifes ; and these, besidcs sounding 
a little shrill and unstately played Far too slowly. 
However there we stood, singing the saine chants, 
making what we could of « Onward Christian So/diers ' and 
« Fight the good Fight" and ç Praise to the Holiest ". It 
was hot well done, but it did hot really matter. I had only 
to look round and the Plain at an), rate was in Sunday 
mood. All as before ; the old hill, and the Water-Tower 
and the still sentry watching over it ; over the l oth's tents 
hung the memoryof the 1Xlorthern Val% and to the south-east 
the grey summer over Kimpton andCholderton ; and to our 
left the great white clouds came tramping up like all the 
armies of heaven in palpable dust, swooping up with a crï 
of triumph» over our old familiar hill from the little, loved 
western river. 

THE LST SrdNIa" oF TEI. 
It was about 9-% or a little sooner that I started out 
for a lonely walk to the bill on the Hungerford Road. It 
would be about the time of C. A. A.'s final address in Chapcl 
and I thought it would be very probably an unusually good 
olxe. And when I saw it in The Salopian, as I wrote to him 
later, I was hOt disappointed. 
They would be nearly at its beginning when l turncd 
back and made across the open field to the foot of Sidbury 
and the slow, sad camp-songs of our galloping artillery; 



E. H. L.S. July Ig,g 73 
and 1 sat thcre with them to liste% and thc hills and thc 
songs faded quite away. Therc werc some scorcs of cyes 
that were none too dry in that Chapcl» and 1 rcmembercd 
that they must not be stared at while thcy came down thc 
aisle. And yet there would not be much rcal unhappincss 
there ; for there is a kind ofsadness that rcaches highcr than 
joy. So we listened» ail together» until finally thc thing 
was finished and we rose; and as 1 said in my lcttcr to 
C. A. A» at last • you came out of Chapcl» and I came back 
over the hill '. 
Well» I will not pretend I returned in what thc scntries 
call a very • riflemanlike manner'. And yct 1 do not know. 
I am rcady to believe tha between thc hours of • Rousc' 
and  Rctrcat" a man should be about his business and hot 
twitch so much as the corner of his mouth, for all his longing. 
Bu I think ifever there cornes a timc whcn a British oflïcer 
may be allowed to be a little more thoughtful than usual» a 
littlc dimmer of cye» it is on such  night as this ; a nigh% 
in two ofhis soul's homes, of sad endings and glorious begin- 
nings very long after  Last Post ", whcn the day's loncly, 
lonely play-acting is over. 

THE LAST NIGHT OF THE],VI'TALION IN ElqGLANDo 
w«a,«a,., y»& ._8. 
The 37th Division had shouted itself hoarse for days and 
wasnot going to stop now. The xoth R.F. seemed especially 
hearty» but all did well, as the saying is. And let no man 
date to sa}, he knows of what songs t.he British soldier is 
really tired. In ordinary moments he will give you ' tterc 
we are again ! ' • Who were you with last night ?' • The old 
garden wall ", and lately the almost national ' Kccp thc 
• ' Whcn this bloody war is over , and 
home-rires burning , 



74 I. H. L.S. july 
the test. Indced we had th¢m all to-night from regiment 
affer regiment on the Plain. But, as I said bcfore [ hold it 
truth that in this war tLe British so!dier, ,w.t» really 
will surel), gie you 
• ' Tipperar), '. 
\Vcll, naturall), I paid a visit to tl»e uardian bill of the 
Division undcr a mav«llous moon. Some strange, watch- 
f'ul p]an«t stood over us to the east of tl-e moon, and 
Cassiopeiasurely the lad), was on ber knees! Ah well, 
e'e if one lives very far up thcrc among the ever]asting 
stars, onc dt»es not st.c a siht like this ever), night" one 
does hot indecd. 
Thc tumult ad the shouting were dead when 
rcac,ed the top, and te silence was extraordinar), wbi]e 
I stood, disbelieving the possibi]it), ofthat moon-landscape, 
like str¢aks o a madma's canvs, or renewing old friend- 
ships among the obcurer stars. All in fact was silet 
sax'c one dog, wlo, I swcar, barked from Hougoumont 
Farm, over a toile away, and was plainl), audible. Magic 
rires climbed tbe darkncss in tb.e hollow the white 
terts Foited upwards like trie soul of all Arabia ; and 
so I stood, first towards Shrewsbur),, the towads tl:e 
outgoig Divisions, like some bewilder¢d prophet whom 
a curiously doubtfu]ly-minded parent bas tempor.ril), dis- 
inherite. So I stood o tle lill ; and fter that I came 
back to my own» throush deep fanes in the tcnts which 
might have been cloven by the hoofs ofa Titan. [t is ver), 
cold, and I think my feelings .e a little numbed with work" 
but I shoE]l be alone to-morow and after, and when my 
rushed period is over I shall know that the Batta]ion is gone, 
and that I ara left alone with th¢ir memory and nothing 
but thc will to say  God bless them ". 



E.H.L.S. August [9[' 7y 

"Ve have had two or three (I almost forget which) strenu- 
ous days. One thing is impressed on me which I shall 
never, on evacuating any otLer camp, be likely to forget ; and 
that is that thc whole Battalion must be turned on to fatigue 
dut}" just before going. An hour's hard work with ,ooo 
men--I can hardly imagine the glory ofit without emotion ! 
Why, they would have left the whole place as ckan as 
a board. As it is, I should ne'¢r have got through without 
help. 
Well» but 1 ara going tco fast, for I forgot to mention 
my flying visit to the station on Tl:ursday, which was ail 
1 had rime tbr. The first halt B & C wcnt off from hcre 
at 6.zo; rather typically early, for the train did hOt go 
till 8.zo. I, exp,cting to be back by 7.0, marched with 
Barnford at the head of No. 8 and saw thcm into thc train ; 
but tl:ough I stayed lng ¢nough to shake them ail by thc 
hand, I could hot wait to see them ofF. 
Vhen I did get back I round D & A just ready to march 
off to the station. The Division was still shouting, as it 
had done for a wcck ; and the colossal enthusiasm ail round 
was ïather in strong contrast to the mechanical, dumb con- 
tent into which, after a few hours of really hard labour, 
I soon found myself dropping. For near]y forty-eight lours 
I hardly realiscd that [ was going to be Icft almost alone with 
the Plain, while my Battalion were whir/ed away to Flanders. 
Indeed, till this rr.orning I have hardly remembered that 
there is a war over the water : for I have seen no papcr til 
to-day since Wednesday ; and 1 now find that Warsaw is 
about to rail .... There is food br tl:ought in that .... 
Somc of the small incidents that followed I described 
in a letter to Bamford covering the razors for No. 8 platoon. 



;6 E.H.L.S. August xgxy 
We were a happi, part t' in our way» I said, though horribly 
]oneli,; and I mu.st not forget to repeat solcmnly here what 
I said about the value ofa good N.C.O. ; it is only in cases 
like this that one really learns what he is worth, in England. 
(lLater.) I rummaged out of a tent The English Re..'iew 
with F. Harrison's article on translating Virgil (of which 
more, shortly) and read some of it outside. 

In the matter of Virgil. This is not the place to remind 
myself of what I think of him; though 1 did send a 
manifesto to M. G. W., J. O. W., H. E. E. H. that 1 read 
Homcr with gesticulation» whilc over Virgil I kneel. Ail I 
want now is just to write down the two adorable lines that 
sang through the misty sunrise on that summer morning. 
Sec thc  lonely word '... ! 
Quisque suos patimur Manes" cxindc per amplum 
Mi'ttimur Elysium, et pauci laeta arva tenemus... 
Thank you- 1 can carry on now very well with A. F. 
913 • 

Sunday, l«gust I . 
« God hummed a tune and made the Wiltshire Downs,' 
as I thought on that day when I walked to C. D. to break- 
thst. To-day I went to the 8.30 Celebration at Ludgers- 
hall» and Iater to C. D. at i i. This was my last visit to 
that village .... The harvest, then, was nearly reaped, but 
' hot ail '» I rcflected» 

'Not all is reap'd, and they wait awhile 
Thc Reaper's coming with patient smile'; 
I watched their myriad orde G and knew 
That sigh to the Plain where their brothers grew. 
' Eodcm cogimur, dears," I said ; 
And they so tcnderly bowed their head 



E. H. L.S. August  9  " 

77 

That I checred them and waved, with my heart a-breaking 
To ste such a gallant show a-making. 
And they waved me back, with their long necks swaying, 
'Twas easy to read what they'ld be saying: 
« XVe're happy enough,' they ruade repli, , 
 Too happy'and so by God ara I! 

*Tn R.B.; BELHUS PARK, PURFLEET. 
Thut'$day, a*lug. I9. (*Irrlved I6th.) 
I hardly know how to write of this camp yet, for I do 
hot seem to have arrived here quite completely. As usual, 
I have left a large--lieber Gott, how large !repart of myself 
behind upon the Plain. Time is probably short; and that 
is why I have not the time to linger and dream over that 
adorable country. But 1 will give myselfjust rive minutes 
very occasionally ; and those will be the times when I will 
remember the two home-signais of the tree clumps on 
"Vindmill Hill: and the finest and first and most alive 
Downs-Road in ail thc world which leads from its foot ; 
and the Very British Village to which that dear road flies ; 
and the Very Roman Guard that is kept at the top of 
Sidbury; and the little church spire of Chute, little known 
and never visited though there was that supper in the house 
of te old lady, of \Viltshire, one night very late in my 
stay ; and the night of bivouac at Fenner's Firs; and IJ/Tlcot 
but I should be a fool to trcspass on that sacred ground ; 
and Ludgershall Church and village, and my first billet 
there ; and Salisbury Close, peaceful beyond ail bearing; 
and Church Parade under Out Hill; and for love of that 
country I will even include 13ulford Ranges (though I 
cannot go so far as Perham Down, its buts and its trenches) ; 
and te most glorious College of Marlborough must find 
a memory ; and the Andover Road, which round me so 



78 E.H.L.S. August  9  f 
strong (!) amidst the 'fall-outs' though so powerless to 
help them ; and the slopcs that used to call m% day after 
day I well knew where 1 well know where ; and my own, 
my very own Details whom I se% thank God with a wist- 
ful and most worshipping affection day by day, the remnants 
ofthe I3th , ah yes] thc I3tt: R.B. iii a vcry strange land. 

THE OLD HIP AT IURFLEET. 
It was from the top of the dyke that I saw hcr that long 
high'dyke which marks the Essex marshes, Immediately 
bclow me the ride seemed on the cbb; and that was why 
I knew after a glance at the anglcs of the river that the 
real ride was flooding in far out in mid-stream. 
Clough would have had some pretty things to say about 
that ; but I had other business on hand. It was not those 
half-dozen fishing boats that caught my eye» though they 
looked happy enough as they drifted in with the tide too 
sleepy to care whether the wind would help them along. 
iNTor the strange dark promise of the great city proclaimed 
by the clustering chimneys a little further to the north- 
west. Nor did I linger very long over the prospect of the 
other bank; though I dil hot forget that Wrotham and 
Sheerness» • with their mcmories of two remarkable men 
lay only a few mlles from where I stood lonely and dream- 
ing as usual an object of some suspicion to the sentry 
farther a!ong the dyke. 
It was the old ship fo my left that ruade me stand still 
and remember my country  for every mast and yard upon 
ber seemed an unforgetful signal to ail who fought under ber 
cnsign. I do llOt know her name  it is probable that even 
x He had stayed at Wrotham in Oxford days with C. R. 
Cdmore. White at this time was at Sheerness. 
! 



E. H. L.S. September  91 - 

79 

the ancient mariners, who of a certainty were not far from 
ber that evening, are too busy in this glorious time of 
trouble to remember for ver), long what strange harbours 
they visited on board her, or what famous days are entered 
in ber log. 
But I liked the way she stood motionless beside the 
drifting craft out there in the river. I left it to the poet to 
imagine ber 
Qeen of the strange shipping, 
for that was not how ber image came to me. As for me, 
I thought of some old, old servant whose years were many 
and her faithfulness unshakable. And there» I think» she 
watched with an indulgent smile the young seagods, the 
children of her ancient lords as they came crowding in all 
together» chin high on the homing tide, very dear and very 
eager, to sec the Port of London. 

ALFRSTON. Sunday» Sept. z6. 
It was not without reason, then» that the  Nunc Dimittis" 
was read twice that evening in the hollow of the Downs ; 
or that the preacher ruade a thrilling sermon out of Caleb 
and the Harder Thing. 

WORCESTER. Selt" 3 o, I t) I ç ; midnigbt. 
 As one that findeth great spoils." Things have not gone 
very well: 1 have plenty to do, plenty to get, matters to 
settle with « Details', and my week's final leave to whistle 
for. Yet that phrase sprang» I do not quite know whence, 
to my lips this morning and rang through my head all tle 
day. For after breakfast I heard I was for tke Front at once ; 
and, as the Psalmist said  I was glad ". 



CHAPTER III 

ApRI. ro OCTOBEtt 9t5 
WHE¢ Southwell first went to the Plain, \Vhite was still 
at home impatient tbr definite work. For two months he 
made e0rts in many quarters to find the place which he 
wanted and which was due to him in view of his experience 
in the O.T.C. On May 3  he eventually joined the 6th 
Battalion (Special Reserve) ofthe Rifle Brigade at Sheerness, 
with Lieutenant's rank. Though he round it harder than 
Southwell to adapt himself without regrets to the new lire, 
his influence was great» as his fellow-oflïcers well knew. 
His sense of humour won him friends, and he was always 
human. But he did not surrender the many interests that 
had been his belote he entered the R egiment. He could 
stock the shelves of his Mess with volumes of Tolstoy and 
Galsworthy yet no one resented this as academic ; it was 
accepted as natural and won him respect. One of the 
officers said of him later : « I can imagine no one who was 
better form, better company,or better anything, than White.' 
And another of his friends there writes of him :  What 
everybody liked about him so much was that, although he 
was considerably older than many of us, he was always free 
and easy with us.' At one time he was imitating the 
Battalion Sergt.-Major, at another the Paddinon Express 
entering Birmingham Station. He would leap the settees 
in the Mess ; and his adventures on his motor-bicycle, 



M.G.W. April 9 " 8 
which (for the first rime in his lire) he had just bought, 
delighted every one.  He kncw nothing about the bike,' 
the letter goes on, ' and I think rather prided himself on 
the f-act. If ever, when we were out together, something 
happened and « the thing '" wouldn't g% we could only push 
it along the road--l've done several mlles with him !---or 
fling it into the nearest ditch .... He was so wondcrfully 
simple in his tastes. He used to find endless enjoymcnt 
in going over to Hollingbourne of a Sunday, having a good 
lunch with excellent beer» and a walk after with his « pijp '" 1 
in his mouth.--I remember» when I took him to the Sheer- 
ness Theatre» how he was bored to tears. He said what 
he really enjoyed was a good blood and thunder drama. 
So when Tbe Rosary came down I took him again. He 
was highly delighted with parts of it because the tragic 
acting was so ludicrous. Of course his violin-playing was 
ripping. The fellow nex.t door to us had a gramophone» 
and he had Bach's Concerto for two violins. The Man 
would tune his violin carefully and play to the gramophone.' 
Another friend of his says- « Do you know that from the 
day I arrived to the day he went to France he gave up 
almost everything to make things pleasant t'or me ? He 
had been in the Battalion then for a good many months 
and had a lot of friends» and yct he always was ready to go 
for walks or bicycle-rides or anything with me. I know 
that he was fond of me» but above and beyond that lay his 
inherent unselfishness to please others." 
The rest of the story of his lire there follows in his own 
words. 

 On the aralogy of «lVl;ijn" for « Mine "» used of the Dutch 
forces in the gaine of L'attaque. 

e18 G 



82 M.G.W. April xgx)" 

LETTERS 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. 2Vlere CottageOxton. 
.dpril I2,» I9I ç. 
Thank you a'wfuIIy. It's a haversack, and a beautiful one 
as you say. x Thank you awfully. (This in the Psalms com- 
mentaries wou]d be called poetry, because of repetition of 
the sentence above.) 
With regard to the War and me, things are proceeding 

slowly. 
I am having a slack rime. 
nor eating neither. 

To HrS SrSTER, MRs. REID. 

Sleep isn't the wo d for it, 

2lere CottageOxton. 
2qprll z6, I9 5" 

I got an awful shock to see Frank Chubb's death in The 
Times to-day ; also Rupert Brooke. There are no words 
for this news. 
(With reference to your tea-party of babies) I never can 
understand the idea of massing babies. Surely babies are 

only nice when taken separately ? 
tl:ey appreciate one another. 

To H. E. E. Howso. 

It's absurd to suppose 

Man, it's a mistake to let the War divert one from the 
geod things. One ought to be reading poetry and studï- 
ing music and all the other things with more stimulus than 
in peace rime. What I mean is that there is a tendency 
for  us who sit at home ' to say, • Well, we're not fighting 
and we can't realise the War, but let's sit as motion- 
less as possible and try to imagine it '. An attitude of 
 As Humpty Dumpty said of his cravat. 



1I. G.W. M.ay IgI j" 

tbrcd and  appropriate' sympathy, in fact. In so far as 
O.T.C. will allow of it I think there ought to be more art 
and thought at Shrewsbury than ever. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. dVlere Cottage--Oxton. 
la.y I7» I9 ç. 
I think very longingly of Shrewsbury now that terre Eas 
started again. I do hope I shall have a chance to comc 
down, some timc this terre. 
Yours cver, 
MALCOLM WHITE 
Capt. S.S.O.T.C. 
Lieut. Ith R.B. 
Lieut. 6th R.B. 
.n.t Lt. Izth Manchesters. 
znd Lt. K.S.L.I. 

 and many many others, he added with drunken solemnity'. 
(I signed myself thus • to a man at the 1,V.O. recently, 
and [ hope it bas now l:een file&) 

To H. E. E. Howso. Oxton. 
.alay i 9 
I'm getting very depressed with ail this waiting--can't 
read even though I'm trifling with Gariaaldi a»d the _alaking 
of Italy. Also feeling unfit now and altogetler I have a 
premonition that something will prevent me ever going 
into any Regiment. 

• The letter was written at a time when his future Regiment was 
still unknown. 

G  



84 M.G.W. June 9r 

To HIS FATHER. Sheerness. 
y»»e , 9. 
It bas been a gorgeous day here. This afternoon West 
and I walked along the sea front watching the destroyers 
darting in and out across the blue. 
liarily I have done very lifle worktaken a remnant 
of a Company for one hour's route march inspected the 
lines signed a number of cheques» and spem a fearful bout 
with he artermaser-Sergean over a Pay and Mess book 
the figures of which I don' understand and never shall. 
Founately he Company accouns are only closed once 
a month and a month hence I shall eiher know something 
abou it, or I shall be doing diCent work. 
Draffs leR for the Fron a 4. his morning, from the 
h and 6th» each with a dièren hand o play flem o 
so wih hat and the Zeppelins and animals (sheep» cocks» 
horses and larks) who woke with the dawn» I did no sleep 
as well as I shall to-night. The Mess-room is very nice» 
also inhabiants and in his fine weathe G the camp (about 
, tains, away). No news. I think s is going to be 
good. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Sheerness. 
une ._,  g x s. 
I will tell you ail about this place in anothcr ]etter when 
I have rime to describe things as they deserve. I ara 
moderatelyhappy. I feel young for my duties and old tbr 
my fellow-officers. I ara in charge of a Company of OE+o 
invalided men (mostly), back from the Front. 
We bave a very prosperous Mess at the Sheerness Con- 
servative Club, which is like a good many Conservative 
Clubs, I should think. Large and ' beefy" pictures of Lord 



M. G.W. June 191 }" 

8f 

Roberts and Buller and a large and rich saloon bar below 
our Mess-room suggest the soundest political views of the 
members in peace rime. 
I should like a Salopiau. 

To ts S[STER. Sheerne. 
3 :une 5, lg5- 
My Company have nearly all been to the Front and 
wounded» and are now convalescent and doing light duty. 
I feel almost ashamed to pretend to command men who 
bave been at the Front» but of course we do very little work 
and my chier job is signing cheques and passes» and paying 
the men, and general administration» at which l'm very bad. 
I feel like that, having hOt long awakened from three 
hours" deep sleep having had the saine number of houm 
last night» owing to having to walk round visiting the 
guards .o to 3.%the farthest limitofwhichwas a coast-guard 
overlooking the sea from clips. It was mysterious coming 
suddenly on a view ofthe se% grey and vague in an uncertain 
dawn. 
This isn't really at all a bad place but the Isle of Sheppey 
is rather smellg and low-lying at times (well, it's always 
low-lying). I hope to get out for a walk in mid Kent 
when I get a little time. The sea front and the destroyers 
are fun. 
I had to go to Church Parade this morning at 9.ze. It 
was good having the free use of one's lungs in the hymns  
the men make a terrific noise. We had the band to play 
us there and back with music comedg and the regimental 
match» a splendid thing» which l've known for a long time. 
The band is quite good. It's glorious weather ber% and I 
ara sunburnt and fit. 



86 M.G.W. June i9i j" 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Slaeerless. 
Jl¢re 9, I9IJ" 
AIl about myself. I came here ten days ago and ara 
moderately happy. I ara in command of a convalescent 
Company, men back from the 3rd and +tla Bris. There is 
little work connected with it, as the men are on light duty. 
The wo:-k is all that of administration, signing cheques, 
failing to understand documents and signing them etc., 
and condemning men to various punishments at 9.o a.m. 
in my Company office. I ara beginning to understand a 
little about this very slowly. The N.C.O.'s are inaudible 
and allusive in connection with everything I don't under- 
stand. (Do you know, a luggage label is A. F. zosa 
tact.) I ara bullied by my C.S.M. and C.Q<_.M.S. and 
hopelessly in their power. West is my only subaltern. 
l've been orderly ocer and ara at present Captain of the 
weekrather strenuous» especially as the guards we provide, 
find, or famish, are all over the island of Sheppey, and in- 
specting them at night mea;s a cool walk of two hours, 
.o to 3.° a.m. 
1 don't suppose I shall get to the Front for a long time. 
One has to go through a good deal firste.g. I bave to 
do a fortnight's musketry, firing chiefly myself, when the 
Range-Finder course is over. Seems rather absurd. 
Then I expect I shall go over to Q.eenboro' for definite 
Hcld Training, when a Captain is available to command 
my 'F' Coy. The N.C.O.'s here are very fine and give 
me an idea of the greatness ofthe R.B. 

To H. E. E. Howsox. S/.eerîess. 
June 9, 191 . 
I ara getting to know really ail about the Infantry 
No. z Range-Finderst!e first mechanical toy l've ever 



M. G.W. June 9" 87 
appreciated. I ara nearl 7 going to get a motor-bike and 
a cigarette case. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Sheerness. 
yu»e  6, 9  S. 
Your wire tore me into two or more parts: The 
perturbed mind flies hither and thither through all parts' 
(Virgil). [ do want to see the Corps drill awfuIly badly ; I 
thought it would be very fine. But do you really think it 
would be sound for me to corne on Speech Day ? Think 
of me wanting to see Men and boys and to hear turns, 
in the middle of Speech Day, with everybody taken up 
with parents etc. Ara I not right in this really ? But 
how am I to see the Corps drill ? Can't you have a parade 
on Saturday instead of Tuesday or Friday when I come? 
Can't it be worked somehow ? 
]t's possible I may be shunted from here on a special job 
of very especial interest, about which I expect I oughtn't 
to talk. I ara again in two minds about this. I can give 
Virgil points in this respect after the experience of the last 
four months. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. $heerness. 
eune z3» 1915- 
I am now cricket officer for the Battalion (i.e. I was 
present by chance when the Colonel was discussing cricket 
for the men. I am a cricket expert). We want katspads 
etc., and all the panoply of cricket. 
Oh ! and I want my Chaucer. Man, I'm sorry to be such 
a nuisance. 



88 M.G.W. June 
To H. E. E. Howso. Sbeerness. 
)tloe z7, 1917- 
l've left my invalid Company as an invalid Captain has 
now turned up to take them, and l've gone over to a more 
active Company, which is good, or will be when this shoot- 
ing is over. It is a funny business here. I command 
Platoons, Companies, and this morning I took Church 
Parade and yelled ' Stand to your front,--'Talion ", in the 
middle of the Sheerness traflc, and had a large and rich 
banal in front of me. 
Chaucer a good man, especially after open air fatigue. 
On Thursday a west wind blew all the good smells of 
Engand in June on to this blasted island, and 1 went a 
glorious walk on the Kent Downs. 
To HIS SISTER. Shrewsury. 
Uly II I9I ç. 
Oh! the joy of this visit! To look out of the window 
at Wellington for the Shropshire hills» blue and beautiful 
in the late evening as I arrived, and to reach the School 
gates just as the boys were streaming clamorously out of 
Top Schools» and to haul oneself into the middle of masters 
and boys, young kind, brilliant» and apparently glad to 
see one again. Southwell arrived on Saturday morning. 
He has written some lovely stuoE prose and verse» in the 
intervals of militarism on Salisbury Plain, and he is in 
good form. So is every one, considering all things. The 
Corps mightily efficient. The Head in great humour and 
Knox and Bainbrigge being incredibly brilliant. 
Oh! It is a place. And I return on Tuesday, and to- 
morrow I shall bave to say ' I leave to-morrow'. However, 
l've nearly 4.8 hours yet, and only bave to catch the 7-+5 
from Victoria. 



M. G.W. July  9  r 8 9 

To THE MENTHE NEW Hotrsv.. 8heerness. 
uly If, 19I % 
( By teleKram. ) 
Have left bats autostrop-strop and soul at Shrewsbury 
please send all if possible. Prose * follows to-day. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Eastchurch Camp. 
uly,  9  . 
I bave no marrer for a letter» and j, et I want to send you 
a line betbre terre ends. It is strange» but I don't think 
I ever felt the end of . terre so keenly bebre; perhaps 
because I bave no nightmare of exam. papers and marks to 
put away from me, but chiefly because Shrewsbury, alive 
and c carrying on'» has bçen such a comçorting and solid 
çact to an exile» and it bas been pleasant to picture the 
place at various routine times. And holidays mean the 
breaking up of all that, and the central fact of my life 
partially collapses for a rime. lqostrum est interim mentem 
erigere. 
I ara, happily» temporily (military spelling ; e.g. rotary 
for rot:*tory» systemically for systematically--so simple) six 
toiles from Sheerness» in a really charming spot. lXly 
Company dig trenches all day, and I watch them. It is 
more tiring than it sounds. Are you going to be in Kent 
these lolidays ? I ask because ),ou were in the Easter holi- 
days, and I think I ara going to gct a motor-bicycle. That 
is the result of continuous militarism. 

For the Fourth Form. 



9o M.G.W. july xgx 5 

To H. E. E. Howso. Fastchurch. 
8unda, July -5, 1915" 
I wonder if, evcn now (4.50 p.m.)» Men are taking a last 
look for this year at the Battalion. Oh M-n I wonder too 
if you know b, ow I felt, when you s-w me off: a fortnight 
ago» and you and the Nue hills and Shrewsbury were drawn 
swiftly away and then finally blotted out by the Wrekin. 
( I never liked thatWrekin' mightn'tyour nurse have said ? 
and I like him now less for his insolence and relentlessness 
that evening.) I was somewhat comforted by the dinner at 
which I was your grateful guest, but I was horribly conscious 
of the increasing absence of the host. 
I am rather dismal about the end of term. Isn't that 
odd ? But I like to feel that Men (and boys) are there and 
that the place is solid» and exists for me to picture at any 
moment I like. The end of terre causes it to lose something 
of its existence for me. 
l've had a wonderful letter from the Man to-day. I wish 
we were togetherit is really a tragedy. He is lonely» 
and so ara I very often. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Eatchurch. 
lug. » I9I 5. 
I am hoping we shall get some Salopians here. 
It was good to get last week's 8alopia» and to read « The 
Elm and the River ', which I loved. 
Will you forgive this pencil ? My fountain pen is lost, 
and tbere is no ink nearer than my Qg_artermaster-Sergeant's 
tent» and, « if I may say so', I'm more frightened of him 
than of you. 
 An address by the Head Master, given in Chapel : published 
in 8rsbury Fables. 



M. G.W. September 191 - 9  

To H. E. E. Howso. Cal)el Curig. 
Sept. II-I4» 1915. 
Just to tell you that to-day l've been over Pen Helig, 
past Craig yr Ysfa, Carnedd Llewelyn, Carnedd Daf),dd, 
and remembercd out walk. It was a similar day» and very 
wondefful»--in and out of the clouds. But the 13erwyns» 
Arenig, and all tlose were there. 
Kitcll will tell you of out regimental sports and the 
clowns who are always hired on such occasions to be funny 
during the High Jump and Putting the Weight---the Auto- 
Spinal. When ata loss they knocked each other over with 
incredible violence from behind. Think ofit and shudder 
at it. 

To H. E. E. Howsou. Sheemess. 
Sept. 1915 . 
That was all very, very good : the Thames on Saturday 
night» the bous% the books, the hope of seeing great men. 
Andwasn't it good seeing the Man and hearing the combined 
laug',;tcr of Three Me:l again ? 

To H. E. E. Howsol. Sheerness. 
Sept. 2% I9X ç. 
There is a new list up (liable for the front soon). I am hot 
on it. But two ofmy real friends here» Buxton and Russell- 
Smith» are. Rotten; n% very annoying. The Adjurant 
has just told me that thc Colonel wants me here for the 
present» being so short of senior officers at the moment. 
I never pretend that I vaaut the trenches; but one part of 
myself says to the other part--  This war is an ordeal which 
I date you to face ; I don't believe you can»' and the other 
part replies--  Lord» then I suppose I must try.' 
* At Purfleet on Sept. I9. 



9 2 M.G.W. September  9 )- 
I enclose three copies of those notes you asked for, and 
! hope they will be useful in the O.T.C. I must try and 
corne for a field day etc. some time this term. 
I am really beginning to understand the Machine Gun. 
It is an intricate machine, but fascinating, rather, l've 
spent about two hours a day this week at it. 
To C. A. ALINGTON. Sheerness. 
Sunday, Septemher z6, 19  7" 
Please forgive me for so late a reply to your so we!come 
ferrer. I ara so glad you are ail back again. I said in a 
letter to H. E. E. H. yesterday that I felt as if my comportent 
pa,ts had been fitted together again. 
I biked out to a good place on the Pilgrim's Way to-day, 
to see what Autumn was being like. I imagine it at Shrews- 
bury a cobwebby dew in the mornings, a few brown leaves 
disturbed by brand-new football boots» and every one feeling 
amazingly vigorous and wonderfully virtuous. I always 
feel I could do anything at the beginning of a Winter term. 
13rowning's 
How weli I know what I mean to do 
When the long dark autumn-evenings corne 
enters into the feeling too, and means a lot. Oh yes! it 
is a very good season. 

DIARY 

)Tu»e "-9, I916" 
This little diary is really the result of a desire to express 
myself to my friends. There are so many impressions 
which I have had and so many emotions which I bave felt, 
that the first instinct was to get them down on paper. If 
any one reads this, they wiil take it as an attempt at talk, 



M. G.W. July 191 - 9 3 
when there were hot people to express oneselfto who would 
bave been like]y to respond. But, though the War bas 
bmught me many impressions and ruade me want to talk 
to some one, it bas ruade me incapable of expression, and 
sometimes, in this diary, what was really emotion may be 
taken tbr sentiment. Well, it is not. Still--you wi]l all 
understand. 
(My servant is waiting to pack this up.) 

.l¢lday, ldy i 8,19 I 
Moved to Eastchurch for digging, in command of ' H ' 
Coy. This is a good place, after Shecrness. Fecl as if I was 
in England. The camp is high up, and there are big trees, 
a bit of friendly sloping down, and a church clock close by. 
No compulsion to belong to any organised Mess, and if I 
cooked my own food over a tire near my tent, I don't think 
any one would object. .Also a large and wonderful Tudor 
House with a story about Henry VIII and Arme Boleyn 
connected with it. Here lie the 5th R.B. 1 think I shall 
like this. 
»da, y»¢i9. 
Entrenching all day, 9.o to 5.o, with great swinging 
views out to sea and across the flats to the Kentish Downs. 
I didn't know so fine a place existed on the Island. 
Tuesday, July zo. 
At the trenches, Adam and I had dinner from the cook- 
bouse instead ofbeastly sandwiches. A discovery--draught 
beer out of a bottle is a poor drhal« This is a good village. 
There is an old church» and a very old man, a great noise 
in the evening» and a Post Office selling everything-- 
alarm clocks, indiarubber balls, and ail things to eat--and 
smelling of everything. A pleasing event was the pursuit 



94 M.G.W. July 
by a small boy, with a lire frog in each hand, of ail 
his small sisters. I watcbed it with much joy especially 
the apFearance of the mother of the party, serious but 
relieved that ' it was no worse , and shouting cautions in 
no way connected with the frogs. I sympathise with A. C. 
Benson in his abrption in small things of that kind. I 
fancy it's the kind of thing that inspired the Dutch gegre 
painters. ey must bave frit a lot more than they put on 
CIlVaS. 
Remark by my srvnt who scrved in U.S.A. rmy 
Mexico- « The lte President of Mcxico was the gretest 
scounflrcl unfler rb« cano  beae.  
West Townshend» and Middlebrook visited us from 
Sheerness this evening. It was good of them and very 
pleasant. Had an hour's lonelires and depression» partly 
due to the bad news flore Russia. Also wanted to talk to 
some one about everything. Ail very we]l saying there is 
no « class' in England or that it is hOt advisable to try and 
remove class distinction» when I feel that the Tommies 
under me are an entirely diffhrent kind of beings .... I read 
Sabire Lad ald Browning "s Last Duche« that amazing 
thing. I find I have a kind of emotional indigestion these 
days, when I read poetry. Every word has such terrific 
force and is so overloaded with meaning that I can hardly 
get on. 
Rained and we returned to camp early. Read a very 
good « After the War" pamphlet» Chariot of 
viday, t, ly 
 A day without salt.' 



M. G.W. July 9tr 9r 

Church Parade and Bathing Parade with the ride full up 
and sandy beach at Leysdown--very good. On return 
found a lot of letters for me, including one from A. E. K. 
about Shrewsbury people for the R.B. eing booked for the 
th Batt. I got excited and more fussy than l've been 
since I began the military life» and dashed offto Minster 
to see a Captain ofthe th Batt., and then to Sheerness to 
sec Col. Dawson, and dined there and wrote scores ofletters, 
most ofthem excited and illegible. Biked back and got to 
Eastchurch about .o a.m. 

A gorgeous clear day still and hot, suggestive of August» 
and ruade one regret the passing ofthe real summer, which 
is June. At sunset a cloud to the north-west looked like a 
blue hill against the gold light» and in an instant I was 
many toiles away--cool night air the trees shivering in the 
middle of the Common,' and the Stiper-stones. 
Tuesday» yuly z7. 
Have just been to a camp concert. There was a one- 
stringed violin with a trumpet attached a very funny rifle- 
man comedian» and a lady-reciter--a typical reciter with 
a pale iory complexion» dark eyebrows rather tired look, 
and a clear-cut dental enunciation. It was rather good to 
feel spinal again. There is so little room for spinality in 
the Army. Still the lady was rather relentless--five recita- 
tions in two appearances» and we missed having the funny 
rifleman again. One rifleman sang a rather doleful and 
unintelligible song with a rousing chorus to the words And 
a little child shall lead them'! This merged without any 

* The playing-fields at Shrewsbury. 



96 M.G.W. July x9 x " 
break into a series of ragtimes which he 
extremely skilfully on the bones. 

accompanied 

Term ended at Shrewsbury to-day--always» or nearly 
always» rather a sad event for me» and more so this terre. 
For Shrewsbury alive and always tobe pictured at certain 
hours has been a very solid fact in my lire since I came here. 
Also there is a kind of strength in the knowledge of a 
number offriends congregated like that. So I feei the end 
of term almost as keenly as I have felt it when one woke 
early in the morning of First Day» tired and aching after 
a week oflate nights over papers to hear the clamorous 
procession ofcabs» the slamming of doors and the jettison 
of portmanteaux. 
A wonderfully bright and very hot day. I dined at 
Sheerness Mess and rode a bicycle back in the moonlight, 
towed half-way by a friendly motor-bicycle. 

iugust 6. 
Like ail diaries Iever commenced this bas already begun 
to rail. Last week-end at the Wests' lots of singing and 
playing which was very good. This week bas been chiefly 
remarkable for my début as a motor cyclist. I bave been 
trying a ramshackle thing with a view to purchas% but l've 
now ordered a new one from London. I'm already over the 
novelty of it» and I expect I shall hate it before long» but 
it seems a very useful thing here. 
. What is madness ? « Faddist ?' Crank ?' 
z. Must progress be slow ? 
3" What is real courage ? 
t. An,vthing can succeed if men will only let it, 



M. G.W. September I9 t $ 97 
Friday, Sept. to. 
After regimental sports» started for Capel Curig by night. 
One of the attractions of night-journeys is that it is a kind 
of secret, even though the people at the other end know 
one is coming. I had to change at Crewe, which was bad, 
one of the essential features of a night-journey being an 
import:mt-looking through train. 
Sunday, Sept. 
1 slept at the Terrace, the saine as ever, and ail things 
as if there was never a war in the world ; the clock an hour 
tkst, the chairs in their old places and in tle bed-room the 
print of the COMMO S:aevr.r. framed with sea-shells, te 
unexplainablc and fadcd photos of two fine alpine glacie% 
the black-framed memorial of Mr. Harry Roberts» ar.d a 
l-uge coloured picture of Moses, bearded and sandalled, 
shading his eyes, with an enormous curve of the wrist» 
towards the Promiscd I.and. The same grateful-sounding 
creak ofthe garden gate bringing memories ofthe patter of 
summer tain outside the window. 
On Monday a great walk over Pen Helig and the 
Carnedds. There are many things which make the 
Carnedds almost the best range in Wales»the steep view 
down on to the plain of Anglesey, the changing outline of 
Tryfaen and the Glyders and the endless ranges of hills to 
the south where a straight curtain ofcloud so often hangs» 
touching the summits and making one think that by stoop- 
ing down one might see more underneatb. If I was a 
painter I sb.ould do that ver), well. 
Sunday, Sept.  9" 
Chiefly remarkable for a meeting of Men. We round 
E. H. L. S. and dined with him at Purtteet. Where dinne G 
turns, and the collective laughter of Men againoh ! very 
good. 



CHAPTER IV 

E. H. L. S. 

O6"roBER 19I  TO IZEBRUAR¥ 1916 

Sou l'nw.t,L joined thc 9th Battalion in France at the be- 
ginning of Octobcr» 9ç- The first day that he went up 
with thc Battalion to the trenches was October  5- Thesc 
trenches wcre in front of Ypres» and it was in this district 
that he remained, whetber in trenches in rescrv% or 
in billets, until Fcbruary. On November zo he caught a 
chill on a frosty night» while on duty in thc trenches; as 
a result» he was in hospital until December $. He was» 
however» in the trenches once moe on December 9- 
During this month thcre were rumours that his Battalion 
was to be transferrcd from France to the East but on 
December OE6 ho wrote that this was cancellcd. 
He had a narrow cscape on the night ofJanuary ç 
while wiring in front ofthe line. His Companycommander 
heard the click of- German machine-gun» and warned him 
just in timc to savc his lire. From January 9 to --6 ho 
was home on leave, and was at Shrcwsbury on the zznd. 
\Vhite met him in London on his rcturn to France. At 
he beginning ofFebruary he had tcmporary command ofhis 
Company» during its commander's absence on leave; and it 
was soon after this that White first came to France. 



E.H.L.S. October 9 " 99 

LETTERS 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. On the train s 
l'orcester to Paddington. 
Oct. I» I9I $. 6p.m. 
I write these lines by the courtesy of Professor Moriarty» 
as it were. So they mustn't be very lengthy. 
They don't give much notice» of course ; in tact we were 
clear within a short rime of receiving the W.O. message 
from the Adjutant. I don't a bit know where l'm going» 
though I suppose the x3th as likely as anything. But they 
may hot have been in this last scrap. 
So I didn't require The Open Road after ail» and must 
write to tell them to return it (if it's there) to Worcester. 
I wired the Man at Sheerness and l've just a hope he may 
be in town when I get there. Incredibly good, if true. 
Good-bye, Man. O11 pretty good, I do think. 

To R. F. BaLE¥. On train 
Vorcester to Paddington. 
Oct. 
Yes, I'm offto the Front early to-morrow morning : don't 
know where, but I suppose there's room in plenty of places 
for even the likes of me after these fev¢ days. I shall post 
this when I get in ; it can only be a short scrawl, to send 
lny love. 
Terrific success over gum-architect this morning ; had 
wisdom tooth out without any pain whatevcr--marvellous 
he jammed cocaine on it or something. Felt frightfully 
virtuous after it, too. Good business. 
The Man's here!' Not too bad. 

' White met him in London. 
H 7. 



x oo E.H.L.S. October x 91  

To HIS MOTHER. On the train. 
O¢t. -. IgI . 
\Ve got off with everything quite correct and it was 
delightful to bave White there to meet me. 
When the grandson of Mr. Gladstone wrote to his 
mother from France, he said  It is not the length of a life- 
rime that counts but what is achieved in it ". I thought 
that these were very true words» and it will surely be enough 
fir me if I could be worthy of them. 
I don't think [ can write any more now. All's well; 
1 most deeply believe that. Pray that I ma t' hot doubt it 
aftcrwards, and never mind the rest. 

-Ço HIS SISTF.R. B.E.: 
Ogt. lZ» IgI . 
1 was pretty sleepy last night» and I slept without a break 
for e!even hours here, but in camp. Oh! but the Dawn 
over Flandcrs, and the booming of a big bombardment 
tCarther away, in a different direction, and the glorious sort 
of war-wind with just the right amount of suggested pesti- 
|ence in it that b]ew over the fields as the sun rose 
and remindcd one that one was in a big sl:ow ; and right 
below olle tl:e wood huge on the map, ten short stumps on 
the ficld ; and the city of Ypres with hOt a bouse standing 
entire; and thc terribly sad view of glorious churches, 
battcred to blazes» seen as the mist cleared ii1 the morn- 
ing, weeping to break one's heart across the desolate plain. 
Oh ! if I could always be as happy as I was during that 
trial trip» I should hOt bave much to complain of! And 
then the men were so glorlous. Tlzey'd bcen in the trenches 
continuously for man,, many days» begrimed from head to 



E. H. L.S. October x 9  " 

I0I 

foot, their eyes heavy with want or solid slcep, and their 
whole appearance quite difl;erent from that of men who've 
hOt been up. It was a very, very young Corporal, and 
there was a deuce of a bombardment on, and the Sergt.- 
Major met him: «What are you doing?' «Oh! just 
issuing rations, Sergt.-Major.' That is not particularly 
remarkable, no doubt, and that is just why it is worth 
quoting, as being so frightthlly typical. WeIl, there wasn't 
any risk as far as I was concerned on that occasion» and it 
was only whcn we got back that somebody said, ' By Gad, 
we've been under tire ; what fun !' 

To MRS. WHITFIELD. 9th Battalion Ri_fie Brigade, B.E.F. 
Oct. I z,  9  " 
That aftcrnooa two of us got one and a half hours' notice 
to get up to the trenches ' for instruction' with another 
8attalion : and actually during those one and a half hours 
in came your parcel ! 
Wc had a glofious rime there ; we were heavily shelled, 
coupled with almost complete safety; and what more in- 
teresting experience could you wish ? SafoEy, because our 
front line was too cloee to theirs to be aimed at, but 
out support trenches (and in fact the back of my dug- 
out, onlyby ?agments--occionally, in rhe front line) 
got hit. Yet only one casualty as their shells mostly fell 
between us and them. It went on for two hours and was 
called 'fairly intense ', i.e. nothing like that before an attack. 
Digging a new trench at sixty yards from the Bosches under 
flares and (bad) rifle shots was less of an arm-chair show, 
rather  
I wod like you to think that my thirty-s hours there 
are a good omen, for they were abmlutely the best l 
ever knew. I loved cvething ; at every step» even in thc 



x 02 E.H.L.S. October x 9  " 

 horrible mire and cla), ', 1 seemed so much the more 
admitted right into the Great Show. But I ara getting 
foolish and must stop. It is because I ara very, ver}, 
happy. 

To J. O. WHITFIELD. 9th R.B.PB.E.F. 
Octo[,er t z, ! 917. 
1 believe rather firml), that there is No Spinality in 'ar. 
But you must go to the front line trenches to pro-e 
that, or the conditions arc hardly fulfilled. V/hat the 
support line may be ]ikc I do hOt know, for during a 
recent bombardment I gallantly turncd my back on it ; 
since the front line, let me add, was only forty yards ri'oto 
the Bosches and theii artillery couldn't very well go for us 
there. But I confess to-day to experiencing once a very 
uncomfortabl¢ sensation, in reserve. * That '» I said to 
myself, « seems to me spinal» and therefore I must bave left 
the ,Var behind.' 
And indeed I had. The inconceivab]c prospcct of a 
wooden-lined dug-out» in reserve, with the yellow leaves and 
the October terre, and nothing but the shells, still bullying 
the battered remains of the city a couple of hundred )ards 
away, to remind one of realitiesthis was indeed a change. 
We weren't idle : six hours' digging per day kecps one fit all 
right. But this sort of digging is hot ]ikc making a new 
trench at fifty yards» and there is rime (when the thrce 
aeroplane whistles go, and work and staring upwards are for- 
bidden) to look over one's shoulder and watch the crumbled 
bouses and ruined towers. « Hate the business ?' Wh),» 
there is hot a blade of grass or a broken brick which does 
hot remind one that no one ever k, ad such a rime in his lifc 
as this of mine» nor over will again! Oh yes» I ara in 



E.H. 1,. S. October igy 

a colos,,rlly good temper. But then I have had nothing to 
go through yet» like those others. 
Good night : ail's well. 

To tqs F,THER. B.E.F. 
Oct. t6» t9t . 
Well! hcre we are in good, though hot very sweet, 
dwellings beneath the Earth. Itis strangc how pcrfkctly 
natural itis to me now» already, to go to ç bcd' tmder- 
ground and slcep like a tired child. It tèelc more as ifone 
was in a low wec room. 
Ycs, I cannot rail to know that I ana being praycd for by 
the dcar people 1 leave behind, l hope you saw my long 
letter about my  instructional trip' itx the other 8attalion's 
trenches. I might bave beex being tangiMy supFortcd , so 
tremendously assut-ed in that period did 1 fcel of the help 
I needed. 
Itis a strange lit'e» and yct I feel as if l had always lived 
in a cave. Itis so natural ! I do need the help I receiv% 
God knows how much! 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. B.E.F. 
October» 191 . 
Oh Man, Man! but what oould you say if; somewhere 
in the most glorious place in Flander% deep buried beside 
what I doubt hot is a looted « bed' in a dug-out behind the 
line (we came out of four days in the trenches, very, very 
good, but not ver), eventful, a da), or two ago) ),ou fbund, 
gloriously thumbed and tom, a terrific illustrated edition 
of the 
Chanxon de Roland ! 
Als% Man» it is the October terre. The evenings begin 



Io4 

E H. L.S. October 191 f 

at 4.30, and however bored one may be at the invitation to 
 Stand to' at that hour in the trenches, onc makes up by 
some vcry fine thinking of home when ont cornes out. 
AIl of which howeve G },ou shall ste in a better letter 
than this which I propose sending Phiz, to whom I owe one. 
Man, ' you should eat less and write more '. Itis a fine 
world. 

Fo J. O. WHITFIELI). 9th R.B.mB.E.F. 
October z+» x9 5- 
Wonderful» perfectly wonderful» that Lendrum version of 
\V. W." And I can imagine you rcading every word 
of it with à sort of triumpl b for it is indeed wonderfull¥ 
fitting from first to last... «v «otp.?Tatp.«Taoeo'r] r«o'wv 
 rtmp.a'ot¢is it hot ? It m ust be something to know 
how he fell»  and that he almost certainly suèred nothing. 
Ah yes» the end of The Republic. Doub]e-marked in 
my Adam edition I think. Oh yes» « rdp.«u, bcyond a 
doubt» ifwe are br the %tZdr¢ r0pda. I ara not ungrateful 
for the quotation» any more than I was for the close of your 
first lette G written so long ago] 
Well there it is. Ail is quiet her% behind the line- 
it seems monstrously luxuriou% really. The three best 
days I cver had I think» were when we had just 
corne out of trenches» and lived in dug-outs on the edge 
of the ruined city. We dug furiouslj, and slept like log% 
while in reserve : it seemed the only thing to do. No 
one shelled us or worried us, though they did hot spare 
the city. 

' William Watson :  Well he slumbers» greatly slain.' 
lated into Greek Elegiacs by W. T. Lendrum. 
 znd Lieut. G. H. Whitfield. 

1-1"all$ 



E. H. L.S. October  9  - , o - 

To C. A. ALINGTON. 9th R.B.--B.E.F. 
October z ç  191 ç. 
Thank you very much for your lettcr and the' Broad- 
shcet '.' l've only scen ont or two ofthen b and thcy do makc 
a plcasant change ri-oto C. zzt--the message form which 
cornes dumping down from H.Qa _. and was about ail the 
Iitcraturc we got in the trenchcs.  It may bc ail very wcll 
to run down the men who make these things,' but therc "s a 
somcthing .... 
Out time in the trenches was short, a baie four days, 
and fairly uneventful. I laugh to think of out cxit» though. 
It must bave been a comic sight to sec me hopping along 
the parapet (we wcre well behind the front tronches, of 
course!) and shouting  AIl those who don't want to be 
shelled at daybreak must get a more on]' There was 
realIy a ver I, good chance we'ld be spotted» but no ont» bar 
a tw snipers» seemed to notice our absurd line. But they 
fairly hobbled along after that» and we got out with no 
casualties once more, and waddled home to dug-outs in 
reserve, a most ludicrous spcctacl% at dawn. Yet at the 
rime there was something rather thriIling about it ; hot 
because there was any real riskI wanted to frighten them, 
rather than anything else, so as not to corne in ail anyhow-- 
but a procession of men as near  done ' as no matter is hot 
an easy thing to contemplate quite unmoved. But it is all 
such very small becr, all this business, and I fecl halfashamed 
of describing it» as I did after writing to Kitch. As I told 
them next day» i£it had been Mons» they'ld havc had ail 

' One of the  7rime Broadsheets '. 



E. H. L.S. October  9   

t hat slc«plessness, plustwenty-five mlles ' ma rch, plus fighting 
pursuing Germans ! 
\,Vell, we are in reserve bchind the line now, and cvcr}'- 
thing is verg peaceful. Hence the opportunitg to write this 
rather absurd rigmarole. One gets rather garrulous, I 
supFose , over the small escapades" and looking back on 
some of those dags, theg were reallg uncommonlg good fun. 
I cnjo)ed cverg minute of them--with a few small excep- 
tions onl)'. 
I sec from Tt;e Salopian that our casualtics havc tison 
enormouslg in the holida),s. One would hot bave it other- 
wise, no doubt; but the thing seems likelg to go on. 
Pupils of mg own are beginning to appear in increasing 
numbers» and I can't e philosophical, tien; though one reads 
the other dailg casualtg lists with a fortunate callousncss. 

To M. (;. WHITE. 9th R.B.B.E.F. 
October ŒE6, 191 . 
It is borne in uIOn me that I have been particularly blasted. 
Here ara I safely packed offwith all belongings, very largely 
due to you, and not a word sent back. I haven't written 
much yet to anybody but my peoFle ; but I wrote a goodish 
lcttcr to Kitch and C. A. A. in answer to theirs gestcrda)', 
and now that we are back in rescrve it is hOt to be to!eratcd 
ttxat I shouldn't send some statemcnt toyou. The crossing 
over was quite calm, tlïough pcop:e seemed rather cold and 
silcnt. In fact the change» from the actual departure da) 
or days, to the gIorious rime we've had sincc, was past 
believing. The most priceless ten days in my litk', I think, 
werc those that wound up with reserve dug-outs outside 
tbe ruined city. 



E. H. L.S. November  9 t J" o7 

To IVIRs. WHITFIELD. )th R.B.--B.E.F. 
October z6» 191 ç. 
I had a lctter from Jack two da),s ago, arriving with )ours, 
curiousl), enough. He told me ),ou had had thc best news 
l/ou could hope for; it is indeed good to hear thc end came at 
once» and in such a wa),. At least I can imagine it must be 
a ver), grcat consolation, though somehow I don't fccl that 
an),bod),, but those who bave the rcal right to» should 
intrude any philosoph), of that kind : those who lovcd him 
will probably crnploy it themselvcs, and if hot, no infliction 
of it b), othcrs seems tolerablc. 
You will be surprised it m), enjo),ing the comparative 
luxury ofa pen and ink (and a table and ail sorts or con- 
veniences, for that marrer): we bave comc right out now 
and arc behind the line altogcthcr for a rime. 
XVc are billeted in a lovely farm: it mcans scandalou, 
prospcrit), for oFficcrs» for wc bave a real roof and a bcd, 
morc than I cver had in England sincc April cxcept on about 
rive nights ; but the men havc to slcep in barns. Still» I 
would bave given worlds for an cxchange into a barn from 
trenches, so I suppose the), are]birly happ),. It is the onl), 
arm), in histor),» I supposc, which doesn't go hungr), evcr)' 
now and thcn» thanks to the A.S.C. ; so that is çomcthing. 

To T. E. 13ARTLEET. B././r. 
IVevember I » l 9 t f . 
Well,the great thing at prescnt is of course thepublication 
of V. 's Poems. At least, I suppose )'ou know ail about 
the idea» which l think bas gone some way towards exccu- 
tion : if hot» there's no harm in telling you, of ail pcople» 
though if it is hot common news, I dare sa)' not too much 
should bc said about it just )'et. But in any case let me 



o8 E.H.L.S. Novembcr 9r 
get said early cnough, what I bave fclt ail a]ong, that to 
you and the othcr forefathers of thc race of V. s pocts 
neither I nor they can ever» bc too gratcful. Things like 
that havc only tobe started and they will go: but they 
could ncvcr have been started by harangues from me, and 
it nceded thc actual poets to set thc ball rolling. I wrote 
to Lutener rcccntly; to him too, of course, wc owe a terrific 
big lot. 
I rcmcmbcr shewing  the book' (tbe book) onc% a year 
ago or s% and receiving some rather clever criticisms on the 
poems ri-oto him. His main contention wasthat they were 
all rather ' pink '. I know what he meant» and so of course 
will you. \Vell it is better than having them grey. And 
yet rear would not be a bad description of some of them : 
what about the Blakeway poems» cspecially those in the 
Kipling manner? Kipling surely is a briiliant scarlet at 
times. 
Meanwhile what poems have you written lately ? I am 
quitc sure I bave detected your hand in Tbe Salopian during 
the last fcw months. One poet did me the honour of send- 
ing me a copy of one of lais works and very fine it was: 
if ),ou want to please me enormously, you might do thc 
sm«. 

To/klRs. A[I-ItTFIELD. 9th R.B.--B.E.F. 
1Vo.z.ember 4 ! 9  " 
I had a lctter from Shrewsbury to-day and thc postmark 
bas rcminded me that you are probably there» or rcccntly 
returncd. I hope you enjoyed going thcrc : it is a glorious 
plac% when ail is said. 
Did I teli },ou that we are really rather spoilt herc at 
' Containing poems by members of V. , written in their own 
handwriting. 



E. H. L.S. November 9" 
nights ? Wc actually sleep in bcds" the thing is rather 
ridiculou% and I feel aLx awful fraud, especially when l 
remember that kind peoplc at hoilae probably think we are 
suflering all kinds of unknown hardships and are being 
sympathetic. Howcver we'll try and do what we can to 
be uncomfortable next rime we go up to the trenches: 
something of the kind is really due to you, [ feel ! We didn't 
find beds up therc, and yet 1 shall never brget my first real 
sleep of four or rive hours in a dug-out aftcr two or three 
days up thcr% and how dclightftd the}, werc be),ond an).thing 
a bed over ptoduced. 
I ana becoming a fait navvy, l bave been on an R.E 
 course' and ara absurdly supposed to klaow ail about 
trenches and wire and sand-bags ; but I ana really beginning 
to think digging is in my line. 
The great joy of our servaats wl:o use the kitchen next 
door (and think they can't be heard) is to yell ridiculous 
broken Eglish to thc small children of the farm. It is 
going oil ilOW and thc extraordinary thing is that the]t seem 
to make themsclvcs tmderstood. Tl:e children worship 
them of course. So do I for that matter: my boy (he is 
no more» reall},) is too perfect a servant and fellow gen¢rally 
to be believed. 
Well here is the gentlcman in question wanting the table 
for. dinner so I must close this ratl'.er absurd rigmarole. I 
wondcr whcther you bave heaps of Shrewsbur}, news for me: 
I shall look forward, s I always do, immensely to your next 
letter. 

To Mrs. kVxa''.t. B.E.I: 
November    t 9  " 
1 read» with grcat interest and a curious sense of pride, 
the information you havc be«n able to glean: he seems to 



IIO 

E. H. U S. November I 9 I 

have fallen quickly and quietly, like so many of the best 
men in the front of it ail, and with that natural inevitable- 
ness which secms to leave survivors without surprise or 
evcn any detailed story to tell. 
I ara glad you enjoyed your visit to the centre of the 
universc : thcy are good men, arc they not? 

To R. A. Kyox. B.E.F. 
November I q., x 9 x ç. 
In thcprcscnt situation I can't feel I deserve the goodness 
of pcople at home in the lcast. Soit is without any feelings 
of regret that I hear, hot to put it too plainly, that the situa- 
tion is liable to a change' belote any very long period 
bas elapsed. When we are in the trenches again I will 
announce thc fact, but at present we are saying very ]ittle 
and trying to fcel very secrctiv% an casy task when there 
is no knowledge of any particular definitencss to betray. 
Thc rime here bas really been more like training in Eng- 
land than anything else: we run, slowly and ponderously 
after my manner, before breakfast, then parade with smoke- 
hclmet G inspect men for absurd deficiencies» shoot a littl% 
drill» do muskctry, digging, wiring» make speeches (very 
rarely ; l've made two on « trench duties ' to the Company 
on wet days mainly because I swore when in the trenches 
that 1 would gct about thirty points really hammered into 
thcm in a lump, instead of having to strafe a man here and 
there in each of txventy-one bays); and so forth. Even 
football has round its way in ; and out Coy. is as pleased as 
any school evcr was over coming out top in that. 
It is ail vcry different from the trenchcs ; s'.eepmg in a 
 There was a rumour at this time that the Battalion was to go 
to the East. 



E.H.L.S. November ,9 I *** 
bed »ceins absurd luxury» especially a bed like mine ; one 
hopes this period will not convert us all into soft jellies 
again. Howevcr, no doubt thi,gs will seem more straight- 
forward when we do go in, as one can't help picking up a 
iittle scnse in even so short a visit as out last. 
lly O.C. Coy. bas been laid up for a week» so I ride his 
horse with immense satisfaction; it is a ver), great thing 
to ride horses» surely. When I say I ride» I mean that the 
horse and I (in that order of seniority) go together» and 
have so farwhen on the marchmade a dead heat of it. ' 
Well, l must sa), good night. My love to the Men and 
V. » of course. 

To HI SISTER. B.E.F. 
llovemker 147  9  " 
Mure asks whether the Army has aged me» and the answcr 
is, hot an hour ; in fact the whole situation tends the other 
way» /'or, over since I joined, I have constantly been in a 
subordinate position to people years younger than myself. 
Not here so much, for 1 ara getting older again ; but in 
the th there were lots of men junior to me» and I fclt 
like 9 instcad of OEg» and a very good thing too ! 
But 1 ara quite ready to believe that being in a really 
thick business ages people sometimes. Eut H. G. Wells 
is ta]king through his bat, I think» when he says that 
being  sheltered from thought" ages one  surely too much 
thinking is just what does age one ! 

To R. F.B.«LEY. B.E.F. 
1Vovember I » 19I ç. 
At this point I turn out your other letter (undated, as 
Cox & Co. always used to say in reply to mine: but I'm 



112 E.H.L.S. November 
better now in tkose mattcrs) and 1 tind some very nice 
things in it. Oh ]tes, I know that smell of damp leaves. 
There would be lots of those here too, with « Michaelmas 
Terre, x91" stampcd in unmistakable lettcrs uFon cvery 
ont. In t:act, over since I came out, it has bcen only in some 
lbolish delusion that [ have not been with you ail the rime. 
«Stand to' belote dawn has, in addition to the glorious 
fact that the night is coming to an end, the invariab!c 
accompaniment of the very academic mist of the plain, to 
make me remc,nber things. And it is thc saine befo,c 
sunset, whcn ïou are coming home from the w«t leaves 
and thc ' tang" of November air, and are preparing, likc 
Arthur 8cnson, to pull the chairs round and sit down to 
tca. And that ,-eminds me that I am now exactly midway 
betveen Jekyll and Hyde, ifyou understand me. When 1 
was in England 1 would look quite often at the Army, and 
the adorable Plain in pa,ticular, from outside : I was always 
a civilian off (my critics would say ' and on') parade. But 
yestcrday an A/Cpl. came in with a letter saying his rnother 
was not expected to lire, and could his place on the leave 
roster be altered ? To which I listened v«ithout a trace of 
cmotion, while the O.C. Coy. (who said afterwards that this 
was what he could bear less than any amount ofcalamities to 
the Company militarily) said that he was afiaid nothing could 
bc donc, as the C.O. hadunder ordersgiven out that 
in cases exactly of this kind the leave roster must be rigid 
or it would never work. And thc moment he left the room 
I turned the corner, with an entirely physical sense of 
altered perspective, and realised [ was in the prcsence of 
a great tragedy. You see, things happen, and go. Ver)- 
rarely I try to stop them» fetling This wi]l be good to 
rcmember'»  That is better than Daudet" ; but I bave to 
climb up behind mg teleoFe to focus them, and it is too 



In thc Headmastcr's Garde. Shrcwsburv 
]uly, !.115 



E. H. L.S. November  9  "   3 

tiring. $o I shall be duller than ever» aftcr the War you 
see. Ah well. 
I wrote to the Man about a fortnight ago ; I fcar it was 
something in the nature of a statement, but whether he sent 
it on I don't know. I will now go into an enormous bed, 
and thank you for getting so far in what seems a most 
egotistical tirade. Good night those Men. 

To H. E. E. Howso. B.E.F. 
lgovem3er I ç , I g z ç. 
Man, I think you ought to be encouraged in your kind 
proposal to send Tbe Patlo and Tke Me" out here, because 
l've already talked dimly about tem to the men with 
whom I lire, and as theï are exceedingly good men they 
should be taught better ways. Merewether (he's my O.C. 
Coy., a z/Lt. like me and most of us) is an old B.N.C. man 
of about thity-four, and ver), adorable. The small editions 
would be the things as we can't carry much weight of 
COUrSe. 
I wish you could find out from the Man something he 
would like before he cornes out. He was always a good 
man, of course  but he insisted on giving me things when 
I came out, and generally filled me with such a sense of 
unworthiness that I do not even now know which way to 
look or what to say: and I wou/d like if possib!e to find 
something useful to sling back at him, by way of shewing 
l've not forgotten his existence altogether. It reminds me, 
by the way, that your map-case invariably accompanies me 
on all marches, as it used to in England. In fact, I round 
thcre that my constant wearing ofit produced an impre&sion 

Hilaire Belloc's Tle Patl to 1me and The Four dIen. 



E. H. L.S. November 9  Y 

that I was a bit of a man with maps and so I decided the 
illusion must be kept up ! You will picture me please on 
a route march lqere astride M.'s horse (he being ill), with 
the thing on my kne% feeling very cunning and pioneerish. 
Also I wish to draw attention to the slight flavour of 
Central Erope of which I am unable to free myself wMle 
riding slowly through the small towns at the head of the 
Company. 

To/is FTHER. B.E.F. 
INTov. 20 J915. 
Tlqis is a glorious ckance for anybody who can keep 
rcally cheerful ; and if you wonder what sort of fairy boon I 
would like it would be that I should hot really fail there. 
At pesent all's very well ; here I am with very wet fcct 
indeed» but well fed and rcasonabiy warm. Later I shall 
plobably have to be with the wet platoon pretty weIl alI 
night. 
Well that's what I really need please ! It is very good 
you know : it is a job and I do wish to make it a good one. 

To rlrs StsrER. dVo. z Caeualty Clearlng Station 
B.E.F. 
3Voir. 7 I9I.- 
I fecl better this morning, and this evening's rise in tem- 
perature is very usual after all No symptom G hardly even a 
head-ache except at rimes to-day. (  81 z" on a gramophone: 
I must stop to listen : six months ago I should lave said I 
was tired of it but when you've heard almost zo music sinc% 
your heart goes out to it !) In fact» if it were hOt for tle 
fact that one can't forger one's friends are still up yonder 
and that one wonders what they're up to» and how long one 



E. H. L.S. November  9  )" x )" 
will be before getting going againapat from that as I 
say» I'm hOt so badly off. 

To THE ME¢THE NEw HOUSE. No. I z C.C.S.-- 
B.E.F. 
November z9» 1915. 
Men, [send on to the Man of the Island,' please.] 
Lying here this moming with a fairly thick head and a, 
tcmperature just high enough to convince me I'm hot the 
most frightful skrimshanker in France (it takes some per- 
suasion» that, when one feels well enough to read, and is in 
a warm bcd» and it freezes outside» and the proper place for 
one, the trencles, must be less comfortab!e !)--lying here, 
as I said» l've been through all your lovely letters and con- 
cluded once again that you were (this is a joke entirely of 
Whitfield's, but I think it is rather a good one) of the 
Good. quality stated in tbe margin. So I said to myself, ' I shall 
write to those Men '. 
I can't pretend that I'm hOt comçortable, because one's 
looked airer in the most magnificent way here ; but I feel 
very annoyed and, to be quite candid, a bit ashamed at going 
down in this way. It would weigh less heavily on one» if 
it weren't that tEe people in the trenches mnst be having 
as beastly a rime at least as I had a week ago; for it's 
freezing, and perhaps worse, and meanwhile one lies in bed. 
--Oh well» I suppose l'Il be out soon. Besides, it's hOt 
as if one mattered at all except for the look of the thing ; 
one feels somehow that a sick o.fficer is always something in 
the nature of a set-back. 

This drivelling soliloquyto which I hadn't meant to 
* The Isle of Sheppey. 
I  



ll(J 

E. H. L.S. November 19 I J" 

treat you--is the sort ofthing I have thought to myself for 
the past 68 hours, when not better employed : but 1 confess 
that l've rather seized the opportunity to read a bit while 
he, e. Partly about my job, but partly not ; and the latter 
has been particularly good fun, for it "s almost the first rime 
since Ap,-il! QEite certainly what reminded me, though, 
that there were Men about, was yesterday evening, when 1 
took up a book at al:out four o'clock, and round that it was 
November, and lamp-lighting rime; rime to read, as it 
might be at home, to the accompaniment ofells beyond m t, 
window, and falling snow, and shadows on the wall. You 
would bave liked those. Good-bye, Men. Tell C. A. A. 
my news. l'm writing too, but don't think l'll repeat this 
tircsome rigmarole again. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. B.E.F. 
l.ed.,De¢. 8, 1915". 
I have this moment been « returned to duty' from hos- 
pital, where they treated me wonderfully well and I had 
altogether too prosperous a rime. 1 was in bed rather a long 
rime belote m t, temperature would go down, so I'm hot 
tC¿ing frightfully strong ; however, we don't go into the 
trenches till to-morrow night, b t, which rime I ought to be 
all right. 
Well, but what I was going to say was that on returning 
I round Tke Patk awaiting me, and shouted for joy. Thank 
you for a good man. 
Well, there's no news, of course, as l've been away from 
things. They've been strafing a bit though, I hear, and I 
am very unhappy about m t, servant, an awfully nice youth, 
who was killed by a whizz-bang while I was in hospital. 
Love to all the Men. 



E. H. L.S. December x 9 x Y x x 7 

To M. G. WHITE.' B.E.F. 
Thursday, Dec. 9, I9I ç. 
We go to trenches again in z hours, so I can do no more 
than acknowledge receipt of z letters. 
I wonder where you'll corne, Man. 
Now I take your train letter. Oh Man, those hills! 
Yes, Man, I know. 
cough dtlixture eoke. 2 Lack of sympathy. 
irthur Benson's Essays. No joking matter. 
Pragmatism. Ah" l'd forgotten, l've lost all my brains, 
if I had any, so long now. 
Book. Man, you're too good. I can't think at all now, 
but I will. And you, Man : I ant very much to.lçnd some. 
thingfor your kit. Write at once, Man, and say.what you'ld 
like. Knobkerry (beastly but useful), compasses, map- 
case ? Tell me. Awful rush, Man. 
Love. 
Man. 

ToJ. F. C. RICHarDS. Thursday, Dec. 9» I9Iç" 
Two Salopians arrived to-day, from l, ou and A. E. K. but 
I was much interested to get your Commenta,-y on the 
saine, shewing the various authors. I liked your editorial 
very much. Oh yes, The Salopian is a link ; it is indeed! 
'The sterner claires of war' take some forgetting at the 
moment, for it is pouring in torrents and we go to the 
trenches i, three hours (get there about i .o p.m.) after our 
three days in reserve huts, under which we bave to-day 
• The style ofthis letter is so typical ofits author, that (despite 
its almost complete unintelligibility) its inclusion will ierhaps be 
fo,'given. 
2 See page 36. 



  8 E.H.L.S. December 19 15" 
been wonderfully comfortab!e, tain it never so violently 
outside. 
As I say, it takes some forgetting; but The 8alopian and 
your letter (and those of some other friends) bave done it. 
The Headmaster's  Dream ' I was very glad to read ; I 
quite agree the poem especially is slolendid. Oh» Burge's 
poem ! It is adorable, my dear, adoraMe. I love the metr% 
too; it is so unusual "nd so enormously alive. Do tell 
him 1 think it is quite definitely a tMng that has pleased 
me more tban any poem l've read for ages and ages. 
Bai!ey's  Rome" is an old friend : I thought (and think) 
it is cnormously good, too. 
I tl:ought the Sussex poem would be Routh's. 1 was 
there, you know, at S«aford, and Heaven knows how I 
thought of the hills every time the Downs tried to capture 
me--though I could not have written clown my constant 
thoughts so well! I liked the  Vale', too, very much. I 
think Sir J. M. Barrie would have had somcthing to say, if 
he had sçen that. Thomson is rather good at that sooE of 
Jubilee Cup' gaine, l've a poem of his, rather on the 
saine lines, in my book. P!ease tell Sanger 1 loved his 
poem, too. You know, the fact is» you've produced a very, 
very remarkable number, and I humbly offC my congratu- 
lations ! 
F,TO rime for a line more, but thanks a tï.ousand rimes. 

To HIS FATHER. 
Dec. xl, I9I . 
YOU see I can do you no melodrama; for a littI% little 
whi!e I bave had what I think the greatest privilege one 
• ' The Draft': published in Shrezwbu7 Fabl¢$. 



E. H. L.S. December 191 " 

119 

could have--that of dcfending the most tCamous city of ail 
tire% which will be sung of when Troy is an idle tale! 
But even that privilcge bas been confincd to a quiet rime, 
comparatively» and also a very sl:ovt one ; and it is all 
over the heads, so to speak, of brave mert who really 
did the things, and of whom every blade of grass and every 

tree (though there are few standing) remind us as being 
greatcr than their successors. Ah» you must believe two 
things ; it's all very» very small beer, but vahe» out time cornes 
to leave this country» we shall be proud and glad over to 
bave been there ! 

To MRs. WHITFIELD. B.F..F. (In the TrencP.es.) 
3aturday, Dec. I I, 191 ç. 
Something very wicked ha happcncd. Three weeks 
ago I got a chill in the trenches and was sent to hospital. 
1 was very angry at this, being a little bit ashamed ofgoing 
under to a ver), unmilitary kind of complaint like that. 
So I said to myselÇ « I will not advertise this episode' 
\Vell» naturally there was no news from such a place, 
though when I got out of ted it was intcresting to 
meet other convalescent officers and exchange talk, about 
where various Divisions and attalions were, and so forth. 
The trenches are in a ver), dreadful state, frightfully 
wet, knee-deep in very man}, places» unusable in others (z 
trench is regarded with disiavour when it gets more than 
 thighwadcrs-depth'!), ind £a'ding in al1 over the place ; 
but the men are wonderful. They are» I repeat it with the 
most sincere reverence (there is no other word)WONDER- 
VUL. They b.ave a dreadful time,esp«cially in soaked dug-outs 
at nightwhere offic«rs generally gc t at least çairly dry ones 
and do get more chance of a sleep, and no touch of di-ama 
cornes along just now : they just stuck it. I adore them; 
tl, ey are the people. 



x 20 E.H.L.S. December x 9  Y 

To R. F. BaILEY. B.E.F. 
Boxlng .Day, 1915. 
Christmas was a great day. We were serenaded, of 
course, and we serenaded the C.O. in revenge. He was 
delighted and ruade a speech in pyjamas on his doorstep, 
and we killed a pig for the Company and ordered up 
certain barrels and smokes which livened up things con- 
siderably, especially during a terrific concert we had later. 
There was, as far as I could hear, practically no firing 
on Christmas Day. I think the Hun is rather susceptible 
there, very rightly. 
What a dull letter, though ! Sorry. It's the gas attack 
which has caused it all. 

To H. E. E. HOWSON. B.E.F. 
1)ec. 7.7, IgI 5. 
Ah ),es, the end of term. I know when you go, too, you 
know. I too have my End-of-Terre Thinking. Last 
rime it was on the Plain; now it is here. It is hot I who 
could forget those things. 
Man, as a loyer ofIan Hay I thought you might like First 
oo,ooo and hope it's all right, l've sent it along. 
Not Four 2rien this time (as 1 read it recently), I think, 
tough it is very fine of you to offer it, and it would bave 
done me grandly otherwise. Something small: I don't 
know what. The Path is going magnificently. Bible in 
8pain or something of that kind perhaps, Man, since you are 
being so good. 

To HrS FATHERo B.E.F. 
New Year's Eve I9I '. 
]t is the last night of a very memorable old year, and I 
must hot miss the chance ofwishing you all a glorious new 



E. H. L.S. January  9  6 12 I 
one. 1 suppose it is a dreadfully selfish outlook on things 
which makes me look on this as a happy one; but although 
for so many it is necessarily an ' annus odiosus ', I can't 
bring myself quite to see the necessity of those pcople 
regarding it as such, who have such good reasons for look- 
ing back on it with gratitude! 
I'm very glad my little messages and cards reached you 
on the day. Ah yes, Pearsall's « In dulci iubilo'; the most 
memorable thing about any Service in Worcester Cathedral, 
I think, when I first heard it three years ago. You can 
guess whetlqer I and another lover of it have hummed it a 
good deal at the time. 

To R. A. Krox. B.E.F. 
lXe¢w Tear's Eve, 1915. 
The Man sent me a copy of Virgil yesterday» and I could 
read the +th Eclogue within the Octave. 
I was glad about that. 

To H. E. E. Howsoi. B.E.F. 
anuary 6, 1916. 
The dear old Four dIen has arrivcd, and l've already got 
to the Fugue. • Oh yes, but I was jolly glad to get it, 
in spite of saying that I thought l'ld prefer something else. 
It's a great book, but I agree now Tke Path is even better. 
(Kitch sent me the I¢Z.B. 2 and I believe at last I under- 
stand the final adjustment ; I used to find it very obscure.) 
Thank you Man, very much. 
Wiring at fifteen yards in front of Eosches last night, 
M.G. opened on us several rimes; none hit. My O.C. 
  The Fugue on the Inns of the World.' 
 Tt»e IVrong Box. 



.22 

E..H, L.S. January  9  8 

Coy. saved my lire and that of party by hearing the click of 
M.G. just as they loaded and he got us all in just as the 
tiare wcnt up and they fircd. Good. 

To R. F. BalLEY. 
yan. 9, I9x6" 
Oh, Phiz, but I do like your book' enormously. It came 
as the most comforting thing in the world to read this dear 
man's letters. As I dare say you've gathered fiom m t, fran- 
tic scrawl the other day, and from H. E. E. H., if you got 
a hint of a narrow shave I had which l dcscribd in a note 
to him I think I mat' really say we've had a taste of the 
big gaine this time. Tl'e trenches we were wiring don't 
really bear talking about. I doubt i_f anything quite like it 
exists» now ; Bosches all round and behind» at bombing 
range in places ; my escape was at fifteen yards one of hall 
a dozen shaves with their M.G.'s. Next night ton bombs 
(from craw]ers) within as many yards of me. Well well 
but H6j sat in such places for 66 days out of 76 I remember 
mperhaps her% for ail I know; and here are we having 
four days" rest alternately. 
Yes but it "s the book that rnatters and it is a glorious 
antidote. I like the bit about the Personality of Railway 
Stations; the Man of Sheerness would like that and 
if any one wanted to do me a favour he would relieve 
my Alpine 2 excitement by sending the Man a copy at once ; 
I should be l-appier. 

 Tbe Corne," o [-Lrley Street ; being ,oraefarailiar corrcpondence of 
Peter Harding 2U. D. 
= A word used by White in the sense that he had seen or 
discovered something by himself» which he wanted to share with 
others. 



E. H. L.S. January I 9 1 6 I 2 3 
It will be an awful scandal if they deplete the staf{ of 
all the schools ; the thought of any one more going from 
Shrewsbury moEkes me rather angry; I know it's rather 
elfish, having escaped myself. 
It would be different if the Hun wasn't in the saine 
trench with us quite so much in this regiçn»--but I suppose 
ur attractions for him ar very great. 

To HI FATHER. B.E.F. 
an. II, I916. 
The lines we actualiy are to hold in our Çoy. are more 
tolerable, but if ),ou could see some ofthose who came out 
of another Çoy., holding what will be our right, ),ou would 
realise thoEt the horrors wcre hot all confined to I9I+, 
though I comfort myself day and night with the thought 
that my betters went through far worse in most places 
last year. But about me you must hOt be auxious, only 
continue as I know you are : there is need .... H),mn z78, Z 
isn't it ? 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. B.E.F. 
a.ltary l l, I916. 
Man, if all's well, I'll be on leave Thursday'v.,ede. Please 
find from Phiz whether he got my lettcr about trenches-- 
there secms to be doubt if it was l:Osted. I described 
vaguely the evilness of the trenches we're in :--you might, if 
you think it worth while, tell him how we were nearly done 
in ; I told him about the next night, when I had ton bombs 
within ten yards. Good. A shell-hole is a very good place, 

for a laith that will not shrink, 
Though press'd by many a foe.' 



24 E.H.L.S. January 96 
at rimes. (About rive, I think ; but you rnay guess I didn't 
stop to count! Goo.4 opportunity for a little swank went 
begging there : supposing I had pulled out a notebook and 
said» ¢ Let me see, this is No. 4 close shave, Sgt. Joyce :- 
but allow me to suggest your right ear is needlessly near 
the edge . . .' Somehow one doesn't think of these things 
in rime !) 

To H. E. E. Howsol. B.E.F. 
eanuary t 3,  9 I6. 
Lcav% Thursday zoth. l've written to the Man : do urge 
him he rcally must corne any rime during the following 
week. Als% Man» we ought (oughtn't we ?) to din% and 
possibly even run, as tradition demands. 
Not so bad» I do think. 

To HIS FATHER. B.E.F. 
eanuary Iç, I916. 
You don't need telling how grateful I ara for your dear 
ktter. 

1 know ...... I know . . . 
So you thought of me during the singing of it ? And 
perhaps I wondered, as I often do at unaccountable mo- 
ments, at the passing of the cloud, even while you thought. 
Naturally it would pass, so. 

* «Cast thy burden upon the Lord." 



E. H. L.S. January x 9 x 6 x z 
To H. E. E. HowsoN. 147orcester. 
)tanuary OES, 1916. 
.a¢ar_pessa.* I suppose there is a ftaw somewhere, too 
much of" what H. B. = might call ' agglutinative'- I mean 
that he seems to rake in with both hands ail the first loves 
of the second-rate enthusiast in the way ofpoetical beauties 
from ail authors and languages, and pire them up with 
sort of ' There ! that "s your idea, and now it's ail on paper 
to the open-mouthed reader. 
That may be all excellently well, as Simon Hartley said- 
but years ago I climbed a passionate heap 3 over this thing, 
and this morning I have done it again. It is right you 
should know. 

To MRS. WHITFIELD. On the train (returnlng lVrom leave). 
anuary z6, I916. 
May I lope two tlfings ? One, that the little coat may 
arrivemit has been so welcome. But far more important 
that you will go on writhag. I don't deserve much, I know, 
but you cannot imagine how I welcome your letters when 
they arrive. This is quite literally true. I myself should 
hot bave thought it possikle that one could be so helped 
along by any letters as I have been by yours ; and this you 
must please believe. 

To MRS. WHITFIELD. B.E.F. agaln, and a dug-out, 
rather a good one. 
anuary "9  9 I6" 
As you can imagine, Worcester, that quiet old Cathedral 
City, seemed rather an incredible change from the trenches ; 
* By Stephen Phillips. = Hilaire Belloc. 
» The Men used offert to speak of  climbing a mudheap' over 
a thing about which they were enthusiastic. 



1,_.6 E.H.L.S. January 1916 

and yet hot nearly so much somand this applies to Shrews- 
bury too--as it did when I took 48 hours" leave just belote 
coming out. I suppose one deadens fancies out here. 
However, this is business, and I must get to it. No 
heart-aches will keep my dcar friend the Hun at arm's length, 
and the sooner they are dropped the botter (which is very 
easily said !). 
Well, well . . . 

DIARY 

Novemer OE, 1915. 
It was time I went. Thc rain sp:ashed gloriously in my 
face as I came out of our ]ittle farm at dusk, where a fea, 
minutes ago we had actually dared to be grumbling.  Now,' 
I said, clenching my fists and gesticulating with bitten lip, 
 aN'0va that is al] over, and things are going to happen." . . . 
« Orate pro anima mea," I said :  Orate pro anima mea . . . 
and particularly Hôj,' I added, for I suppose the meanest 
so!dier God ever ruade has some ideal leader of his own. 
So I we,t on in the pouring rain and the mud. It was 
quite obvious which tuming I should take at the corner of 
the lane that leads from our hom% and within a few minutes 
I was in the village and at its farther end. The white face 
of the church clock stared at me with a strange surprise as 
I stroe past. That', I answered, ' only shews again 
that you do hot quite understand. It will be all right, but 
there are things to be done first.' So I passed flore the 
village, and the slow, limping piquet was soon left far 
behind. It was now but a few hundred yards to the end of 
my pilgrimage, which as you may guess was obviously the 
fi-ontier. It seemed a pity to bave to strafe the sentry for 
being too easily content at a great distance with my mono- 



E. H. L.S. November 19 1 )" I : 7 
syllabic reply to his challenge. Did thcy mind, Those 
Others? I wondered if each nudged his neighbour-- c See 
how one is angry because they receive so easily, on this 
Night of ail others, his Voice from the night, claiming 
that he is a friend!' But I left that business, for 1 had 
al"rived. He;-e was my goal, and here I halted on the litte 
bridge over the tiny border stream, and fingering the German 
lXTewTestament in my pocket I remembe1"ed many countries. 
clt is all right now,' I said - « all the co,'ners ofthe earth . . . 
Ah yes,'I added, disdaining ail mild faithless ubjunc- 
tives, « to-night, I most deeply believe, Omnis Spirltus Lal«dat 
Domlnum." Back, thon, from the frontier ; back to France 
and the little village church ; and this time with a haste, as 
though to make amends, I went in. [t was absolutely dark, 
except for one tiny candle by the altar at the far end ; and 
I was not sorry when the end of my stumbling came and I 
reached my goal, especial ly when the deor opened and closcd 
when I had gone half-way.  lXTever mind,' I thought : « it 
might be Hôj, corne in reply to my greeting.' So I arrived, 
having stepped on all the happier for that. And there at 
last [ came ; and there, while the door opened and shut 
again and again with the most encom-aging pe:sistence 
remembered Them and their Deeds and my own endless 
needs, in the language that for lmndreds lnd hundreds of 
years has fought to oblitcrate all the frontiers and all the 
doubt, the most holy language of Rome. 
It is very late now, beloved Men.' Since writing that, 
I bave gone to the window and looked into the night ; I 
have seen the distant star-shells and heard the distant guns. 
« Ruht in Frieen,' I murmured, c and forget te strafing : 
it is Ail Souls' Day.' 
Good night, t'.e Men. It is a Magnificent World. 
I What is written above was sent hy him to the New House. 



 28 E.H.L.S. November  9  Y 

Nooemer  8, 19  5. 
The l/l.ralk to Potye. It was pelting with rain when I 
started at about 3-° or so. As I got on I soon became quite 
happy, as is one's way in a &luge when moving and dressed 
for the part ; and I do not think the guide minded, as 
much as some would have, the fact of his being pulled out 
of his dug-out on such a day, We came across the fields 
half-right, as tl.e cross-road was marked not to be used, by 
the Artillery, I think, who as usual do not want any fiat- 
footed Infantry paddling ound theirwar-hives. At the edge 
of the wood I let my guide go home; and passing many 
dozen bottoms of shell-cases, I got an Artillery-man to take 
me to the ith Essex H.Q., where a couple ofofficers from 
their M.G. section offered to shew me were the E. Yoïks 
were. Itis curious, how 1 ara beginning tothink I enjoyed 
that aftemoon; the idea is obviously absurd--0¢ 8 roc 
«O&ra I,l, Vî«O« r[vo:v, I suppose  still it had enough ofthe 
ridiculous in it to make it just worth remembering. 
The Plai»tive Gunuer. Were I ten rimes more than a mere 
subaltern I do not think I should have the impudence to 
strafe the gunners ; but here was an R.F.A. subaltern to- 
night getting quite heated on the subject of Infantry and 
Artillery. What he objects to most seems fo be the shyness 
with which certain Battalions in part of Hill 6o, where he 
is view an occasional short-bursting shell as judged by the 
language in which they protest against it. Probably the 
best thing to have done would have been to agree that the 
Infantry should welcome an occasional surprise of this kind, 
on the ground that itis all healthy experiment with a view to 
strafing the Hun. But unluckilysome of us tried argument- 
 Would he not be very indignant if the short shell were hot 
announced to the gunners " l,ike the don confronted with 



E. H. L.S. December 9  f 29 

the goat he was bound to admit that it was so'; but 
[ doubt if it really soothed him. The result in his battery 
is that they never tire at the Hun first line at all, as they 
reckon it is hot worth while risking thc inevitable accidents 
from wrong fuses and wet ammunition. 
Well, I ara glad to think l've never complained, not 
having had ashort shell down my neck; but I can sympathise 
with both parties. 

Dec. IgI f. 
AIore oflffo. ŒE C.C.S. It was rather intcresting, as there 
were always officers from ditkerent stations coming in. 
The authorities were very generous, I must say ; we were 
excel]ently fed, and night after night there would be red 
and white win% whisky and brandy, on the table. No 
great inroads however were ever ruade on these, as no one 
felt up to it. One night I played Auction (with tb.e usual 
fool's success) with two very nice R.A.M.C. men and 
a man from the Oxfords. I once redoubled three Royals 
and ruade them. 
I read The Fair Maid off Perth there. I also read Barrie's 
book which contained the original story of Peter Pan, t?om 
which the play grew. I suppose no one ever understood 
children like that : the guessed success of the bachelor with 
children without their parents standing by, the tt rrific 
solemnity of small boys in great coats--these are grandly 
done. 
Bells, always bells, from the big church over tle way. 
It was not very far £rom home being there. Bells of Lich- 
field, Eton, Newcastle, Oxford, Shrewsbury, Worcester ; 
the little bells of the Plain ; ail these could be heard clearly 
as I la}, listening to their raie. 
Strange how soon one gets back at least some strengtl0. 



3 o E.H.L.S. December xgx)" 
My first walk of one toile at H. was very exhausting; I 
sat on a road-side seat hall blind ! Within two or three days 
I was in the lines, walking all day. 
The December elflternoons. There were those at H. ; when 
one Iooked at the Xmas toy-shop and the dolls' tea-sets 
(I remcmbered with a curious rush the way the little cups 
would fit into the cardboard, ycars ago), and the evening 
came over the shops, and the lights, and me, and it was 
rime to corne in to tea like a good boy. 

an. 3, I916" 
This morning thcre is nothing doing but cleaning» and 
wc sha|l bave an inspection in an hour or so. But what 1 
wantcd to say was :-- 
Why bave I hot discovered a lovel¥ thing by R. L. S. 
belote? It is in The Open Road (page 24z); In the High- 
lands.' I bave it on the table now. 
But oh, the militaty mind! I had read through once, 
delighted, and half-way through again, when for no reason 
I murmured to Winkley,  You know thc way to inspect 
Tube Helmets is to bave them in here man by man» and 
avoid waiting and exposure in the air ! ' 
And this, although, so far from being tempted by in- 
difference to think of othcr things, I was definitely excitcd 
about the potin. We are a strange people. 

T'wo Heavy Pages. an. I z 1916. 
Books, during ail this period,l/Frong Box and a thing 
called Ed'wards, by Barry Pain, a book about a London 
gardener, painting him in none too honest colours» and 
coloured for me throughout by trenches and knife-rests, as 
is the way of printed marrer to men in a grave situation. 



E.H.L.S. January tgt6 3t 
Who that bas ever been through anything even the hours 
before an mximportant race, does hot know how he reads, 
not the pages before him, but something he dislikes the 
prospect of, across them all ? Of course this prospect 
business is played out fairly soon, I hope and believe, and 
ara beginning to find ; but knife-rests, due saine evening at 
 ç and z5 yds. from the Hun in biggish numbers (a dozen 
or so) do corne iato one's mind when they shouldn't; and 
this would hOt be an honest entry if it tried to drown the 
fact in any heroics ! 
Before dismising the subject of this idle contemplation 
of danger it would be rash hot to remember two things it 
I think, begets ; one is a quite physical emotion towards, 
and almost clinging to, inanimate objects; the other is the 
passionate acqiiescence in low countries. Whether this 
latter be due to the fact that the eye gulps greedil)' at large 
vistas of scenes it ma), possibl), be like to lose I do hot 
know; but I can understand quite well now from its 
complete absence when at rest among the lowlands how 
the contrary is true of mountains and how dread is said to 
lurk in high places. Yes! I suppose we bave had a taste 
of what Belloc calls 'the great emotions'. But I am at 
last quite conscious of what really happens ; one introduces 
an almost palpable lur. The great-hearted ones probably 
do hOt do this: they pull out their skeleton and defy him» 
and rather look forward than otherwise to explorations 
among his uncharted bones. For myself I ara perfectly 
clcar ; I do hot exactly reverse my chair, and I pray devoutly 
I may hot wart to Icave his company. But I think he is 
just left out, hot even waved aside--I ara a total stranger 
to any melodramatic ' steeling ' and ail the rest of the room 
grows more and more adorable in detail just because he too 
is there. It is a curious world. 
K • 



   E.H.L.S. January  9  6 
Well» but I am coming to the Nox dlirabilis,* Wednesday, 
Jan. 7. And I do hot think I need describe it here. The 
pose of the  strong silent man" (which I and J. P. D. have 
decided is the one to gull the gaping civilian !) may be all 
very we]l, but I hardly expect the story of this night 
will go altogether unremembered or unrepeated. Besides, 
it is J. A. M.,  hot I who is the hero of the piece. 

H/'ed., an. 9.-.o p.m. preclsely. 
An entirely idle, and I am afraid grossly lovable, day, 
on which my memory will dwell with wlat is known, I 
believe, as loving particu]arity. To be exact, I am sitting 
on a rather hard concern of boards, thinly disguised in a 
layer of water-proof sheet and man), sand-bags underneath 
me ; another sheet excludes the sunlight, all but a couple 
of long beams down which play a remarkable assortment of 
smoke wreaths. For in my mouth is an enormous cigar, 
the gift of J. P. D» of terrific prosperity; round my shoulders 
is my British Warm ; I ara well shaved, I think, but other- 
wise content to be in a comfortable assurance of the need 
ofthe soon expected bath. Over my right shoulder protrudes 
from the wall of the dug-out a stick supporting a candle ; 
aeroplanes buzz overhead, and two or three silIy nations 
are squandering ammunition by the ton upon them; the 
Hun furiously strafes the French support lines, and out 
guns reply occasional]y. Every now and then a M.G. 
wakes up and pushes in half a belt, as our M.G. Officer 
bas it ; and in an hour the three aforesaid foolish nations 
will have their front lines standing to'. I am quite 
t This refers to the night when he had a narrow escape fiom a 
German machine-gun. 
 J. A. Merewether, his Company Commander. 



E. H. L.S. January 96 33 
warm for once. I think I ara making my entry with 
a rare amount of detailed precision ; it is unlikely that 
for some rime  I shall be removed'; and I am going on 
leave (with Chester as companion, too) precisely at +.3o a.m. 
to-morrow. 
Leave! I am heartily glad I took the steps I did -bout 
it ; £or anyhow I ara afraid the standard required for it is 
n0t reached (!)» nor approached» even in these our days. 
Terribly  deteriora sequor '; but better, even s% than cease 
even  videre meliora '. Anyhow, I am going, and for the 
present it is delightful to promise great things ; especially 
those great things which have absolutely no objective 
importance, perhaps. Thus» shoald I  get my civvy clothes 
on ' ? I think yes ! It is a sort of proud little prerogative 
of people back from the Front especially, though it is oten 
done at home by some, but hOt by me till we came out. 
think ),es; it should make more of a real holiday, and 
though Heaven knows l've done nothing, I can do with 
a change perhaps.  Spats, too,' as Michael said. And 
evening dress, no doubt. And gaines of cards in the 
evening ; and then probably a smoke with father and a talk 
over Big Things. Exercise--I must bave that ; I ara still 
not quite strong after my chill  perhaps I shall run down 
to the Lock and back as of old. And hot too much to eat, 
while hOt so active, and in a house. 
Books too; imagine if I could really do something to 
clear the air in The Large Matter in a week ! The life of a 
student, when alone ; shall I go back to that for an hour 
or two, with pens and paper and volumes round me ? This 
could only be very early and very late, of course, with the 
old Cathedral to point the way. But though it is good fun 
to put these/ittle more material matters first, there remains 
Home, and that is where I go. Home, and to my aih 



r34 E.H.L.S. February 9r6 
folk» whom I seem to know now better than ever beforc .... 
And about that I do hot think I should write profanel). 

14Zed.» Feb. z. 
Elverdinghe Farm. Let us begin with the last good thing, 
which was any time after o.o a.m. to-day. As usual, I took 
my short airing down the road past the French, saluting 
and nodding like fhn ; there is hot enough of that business. 
It bas never tçailed to be the adorable time of the da),, but 
to-day, after a certain amount of f:airly real misery (in F 30 ' 
[real F]), I strode down that road inhaling the air of the 
universe, and even I counted my breaths, fifteen yards at 
a time! 

Feb. 3» 916" 
The afternoon was peaceful again and thank God I have 
heard the sad songs of the British inçantry proceeding from 
the barn betokening that my much over-worked men are 
happy. They bave had the devil of a tim% and no sympathy 
from H.  tbr they are put on working parties at once. 
At about 3.3 ° I began writing and continued till after 
.]o. First orders br relief came along, and I spent timc 
drawing a plan of thc front line and Canal Bank. 
7.30 p.m. Glorious chorus of  Good-by% Virginia" from 
room of officers' servants next door; it muæt be the young 
Davis (it was)» who delighted me so enormously on Xmas 
Day at Houtkerquc. I can't stop myself from wanting to 
listen .... Ver), excellent indced ; it has ruade a great 
differcnce, thank you! 
The three following nights werc rcmarkable for the 
colossal work put in by D Coy. I shall never forger the 

' A trench. 



E. H.L.S. February 96 - 
vigour theï put into thc work on the night of the ŒEEth t'fore 
o.3o to tz.3o. We should bave begun at 9.0» but the 
sand-bags and shovels were late in arriving from R.E. 
or wherever it was; and l had told them, the barder the}, 
worked, the sooner the second relief would get home. 
Result-- ç men tïlled about çoo sand-bags in z. hours and 
laid several hundred of them. Theï worked like fiends. 
It takes men with the real thing in them, to work for thcir 
successors like that ; and» please God» that is going tobe truc 
of all out work in those trenchcs ! This is a fkct that must 
hot be forgotten. |t had the real unseltïsh l-ing about it. 
lfternoon. The gramophone in t,e barn with the Com- 
panï ; an idea or" mine which pleased them a bit, ! think. 
We sat listening to the Plantation Mcdleïs and H. Lauder 
songs» etc» while the shells strafed thc village, and the blue 
skï pierced through the roof. It was worth doing. 



CHAPTER V 

OCrOBER X 91  TO FEBRUAIY 1916 
DURING this time White was still at work with his 
Battalion at Sheerness» often in command of a Company. 
His spare hours he gave to music, reading, and the organ- 
isation of gaines and entertainments for the rnen. He 
was away on leave from rime to rime  on December ŒE he 
came to spend a long week-end at Shrewsbury. Southwell 
and he met once (for a few hours)in London, but that 
was ail. 
He was on leave at Radlett with his sister when the 
telegram came ordering him to France. And on the 
£ollowing day (February 7) he went to Southampton. This 
is what he wrote during this period :-- 

DIARY 

October I+, 1 91 . 
Hollingbourne with Buxton and Russell-Smith. A 
wonderful day of Autumn. There was a forge at Holling- 
bourne, and the sparks ttew upwards. In the train on the 
way home I read the two greatest short poems in the 
language (steady !); the Ode on a Grecian Urn, and the Ode 
to lutumn. 
)tan. z6, 1916. 
Met the Man in London on the way back to the Front 
after leave. He had wanted me to go to meet him at 
Shrewsbury, but I said I could not go there at present» 
for (1) practical reasons, (z) psychological reasons  as I had 
decided not to go again till I had been out. 



M. G.W. October x 9 x y x 3 7 

LETTERS 

To THé. M.b:--THE NEw Hovs.. Radlett. 
Octo/er z, 191 . 
I have to report that I saw the Man off from Charing 
Cross this morning in good health and good spirits, 
and gloriously himself. 
Read plcase» Boon, by  Reginald Bliss' (H. G. Wells), 
for turns and deep thinking mixed (Virgil). 
Oh, Man! Wales was good. 
l've just been talking to a remarkably clever man. 
He came from the Man's Battalion, and the Man wired to 
me this : ' Make early acquaintance of latest arrival from 
here very delightful sadly * anti-Eensonian." 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Radlett. 
Octoer z» I 9 I ç. 
I spcnt last night with Southwell, and saw him off this 
morning early from Charing Cross, just too early for him 
to receive the poems,' which I found on returning to the 
Hotel at I I 
He was very much himself and awfuly concerned as to 
the items of kit which he ought to take, and wishing there 
was an order to take no kit. We spent an hour in chemists" 
shops last evening, while Southwell examined the chemists 
about anti-vermin powders, believing all their ver/various 
suggestions and acting on most of them. 
Finally it required three taxis to get to Charing Cross, 
not due to the size of his luggage but to a general lack of 
organisation in the departure. 
 Southwell was fond of A. C. Benson's books. - « V. .' 



I38 

M. G.W. October t 9 t, 

It is not fair that 1 should have to see him offand hot go 
with him. 
I think 1 told you that the Colonel is not letting me go 
out just yet, by reason of my morc advanced age, and 
the shortagc in our Battalion of officers over twenty years. 
It is a nuisance, l'm all for the Front, now Southwcll has 
gone, and also kindred spirits at Sheerness are going. 

To A. E. klTCHIN. The Hill-top--Radlett. 
Oct. % I91 ç. 
Scc my remarks about the Man to C. A.A. He ,was 
worried about his kit. How many Morphia tablets should 
he take? If they wcre so useful, why not hundrcds of 
them ? Whether sulphur was really any good against lice ? 
Wouldn't it fall off the clothes as soon as it was put on ? 
Ec. etc. Hc couldn't think of much else. 
I told him about those steel plate mirrors--you know the 
thingsmand we discussed their efficacy against glancing 
bullets, etc. ; and finally, when I asked him if ho wanted me 
to send anything out to him, he seemed to think these 
wcrc good things (though he'Id bc quite content, if some 
onc ordcrcd him hot to bave them). Anyhow, he said 1 
might as well send him out four. 

To CANON SOUTHWELL. Sheerness. 
October IO 19I . 
l must write a line in answer to tbe very kind letters 
which you and Mrs. Southwell bave written to me. 
As you will easily realise, tlere has been no departure 
for the Front which I bave felt so keenly as Evelyn's. I 
always think (and sometimes say) tbat there has never been 
anything quite like the lire which our common housebold 



M.G.W. October lgtf i39 
has lived at Shrewsbury these rive years» with its intimacies, 
enthusiasms, and mutual appreciations. Whitfield was 
saying the other day, what has been thought by so many 
who knew him, that Evelyn's soldiering is one ofthe finest 
sacrifices of this war, undertakcn in spire of his character- 
istic distaste for all, or a great deal, that it involves. 
I hope to hear good uews of h im very soon. 

To H. E. E. Howsoi,/. Sheerness. 
Octoer 19 1 J. 
Autumn is being good in lient» when I sec it. 

To R. F. AILEYo Sheer»es. 
October z I » t 9  " 
I fcel cducation lnUSt be an intcresting business now. 
E. g. Democrac)', Frcedom of Prcss, Empirc» etc. etc. 
I ara worried about the ize of the world. A Rhodesian 
startcd talking about South Africa last evcning, and I 
thought, « Good God ! South Africa has never corne into my 
vision at ail. l've always rathcr rcgrettcd ail those colonial 
places. But thcy have to be considered too. It "s awful!" 
Schoolmasters are always either trying to make acsthetes 
out of Philistines (the Adjurant has just corne in and said 
that three were to go « out' now» and those three includc 
two of the best people hcrcdamn !) or Philistines out of 
Prigs. The Prig so often has the foot of goodness in him, 
and we deal with it so unsympathetically ! (This is hot a 
sermon to you ; only» being now  a soldicr, 1 speak dog- 
matically.) I should have becn so much better a person, if 
my seventeen-year-old aestheticism had been kindlicr dcalt 
with ; if I had been shewn why it was wrong, i. e. because it 



14o 

M. G.W. October i9 i)- 

was not real» not because it was not manly or some such 
thing ; if I had been shewn where my violin practice lay in 
the scheme of things ; how it was good and therefore most 
necessary to look at it in the right perspective. 

To A. E. KITCHIN. 8heerness. 
Oct. z% 1915. 
l've just put up on the Mess Notice Ioard the following • 
LOST 
Who has borrowed from an Alldays Allon Motor Cycle 
a pump ? 
Please fill in. 
(Naine) Captain 
Lieut. 

.nd Lieut. 

' It is calculated to abrd the very highest amusement.' 
We are playing Rugger amid general enthusiasm at 
present. We beat 5th K.R.R. to-day fairly easily. I 
couldn't play» as I twistcd my ankle in a gaine yesterday. 
I'm in rather good form this year. 
l've heard some great music at week-ends lately at 
Q,9_een's Hall. 
Kent was very lovely when I visited it last on various 
o:casions with Russell-Smith, Buxton, and West. 
Thougbt. l've read some poetry ; good old things like 
Kcats' Odes, etc. l've been arguing against pure Conser- 
vatism with the Adjurant and Captain Edwards, and have 
given the latter Galsworthy's Strife, Silver Box» etc. to read. 
I'm also getting thcm to read Lowes Dickinson's lfter 
the 14,'af. As to the WAR» l've been so taken up with the 



M. G.W. November  9 t)" t 4t 
problems of its direction that l've hardly thought about 
its essential justice. I'm just where I am. 
I think perhaps that you base your own undoubtedly 
powerful arguments for Christianity and Peace too much 
on the hopelessly compromising and inconsistently weak 
attitude of most parsons and that you do not work enough 
on a priori reasoning.  don't think you've ever really 
refuted the man who says c Yes but we are improving 
slowly ". You have only proved the Unchristianity in him. 
I ara always hovering round the opinion that there is a 
World-Mind gradually growing.stronger and more reason- 
able through and in spite of its various forms of commerce» 
armaments competition etc. ; and that a sudden violent 
renunciation (as suggested by « literal" Christianity) would 
be an aberration of that Mind» just as the War is an 
aberration. 
[Read Boo» by R. Bliss. (Really H. G. Wells.)] 
Of course that is hot Christianity» at least I'm afraid not. 
No--damn it! It isn't. 
Many thanks again for sending The Saloplan always very 
welcome ; it arrived to-day. 

To TtaE MEIq-THE NEw HotrsE.* Sheerness. 
October z6» 191 . 
['m sorry to note that we're no better than we used to be. 
-- JERSEYS -- 
A Man. 

To A. E. KITCHIN. 6th R.B.Sheerness. 
N0v. 9, I915" 
Just a line. Thanks very much for The Salopian. It is 
very good of you to send it ; continuez donc. I was at 
' Following a neglected appeal for football jerseys. 



142 M.G.W. November  9  !" 
Repton last Saturday with a 6th R.B. XI--hopelessly 
beaten. I did a thorough subaltern turn in town on the 
way up with the test of this party. Dinner at the Elysée, 
fbllowed by The ozly Girl. I enjoyed the whole expedition 
moderately only, with the exception of The Only Girl, which 
I likcd very nltlch. 
Saturday night and Sunday I was at the Musical Club. 
Sunday--Temple Church, stroll round the Temple, Heet 
Strcct, Cheshire Che«se, and Russian concert at Aibert 
Hall. 
I hopc to bc on the list * soon, and when 1 ara, ! shall get 
long leave and put in a night or two at Shrewsburï. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Sheerness. 
November 15, 95. 
Ycs, I will corne soon, but hOt this week-end. Also I ara 
quite ready to cxclude Advent Sunday, the z7th , but I wish 
ïou hadn't mentioned the fact that it was Advent Sunday. 
I thought of muddy roads, darkening chapel windows, the 
tire-side, and « For behold, Darkness '. Man, I got strum- 
ming that lovcly Bach Sonata last night, thc one in which 
the piano starts stcadi]y and expectantly :m 

x Of Oflqcers liable to be sent to the Front at short notice. 



M.G.W. November 9y 43 

and thc violin :-- 

You know. To-day l've round a pianist and we arc going 
to play it to-night. Ye% there is a good deal to attract 
me to S. on Advent Sunday ; good hymns too, probably, 
in Chapel. Howcver, l'Il corne later, perhaps, if it suits 
),ou better. Anyhow l'III going to get up on Thursday and 
corne fol" a Field Day. If I did corne for the z7th  I should 
bave to appl), this Wednesday, anyhow. (l'm using the 
word ' anyhow ' a lot.) 
l'm glad ),ou've been to Rome • again» Man. That is 
good. I shall hover round the Jura when I corne, I make 
no doubt. 
Oh! look. A son of Prof. Sorley, who was at K.C.  
Choir School under me, was killcd recently in France ; lac 
had left Marlborough last summer, and secms to have 
developcd into a remarkable person. I have got hold of 
three pocms of his. I haven't rime to write it all out, 
so on second thoughts l'Il bring them to Shrewsbury 
some da),. 
When I coin% please have the Field Da), vaest or south 
of Shrewsbury. One of the good old spots, like Betton, 
Sharpstones, or Stretton, or Upper Edgebold--I mean 
UPPER EDGEBOLD. 3 
I must write again to the Man. 1 ara bad about writing 
to France. 

' By reading The P.ttb to lkomt. 
 King's College, Cambridge. 
s As the names of places are written in military reports. 



44 M.G.W. December  9  " 

To Tn. MENTHE NEW Hovs.. 

This is not very good about my :-- 
i. Captain Comfy pipe, 
ii. Haversack, 
iii. Kitch Snapshots ;  
because they absolutely must (with possible exception of i. 
[Why do you use phrases like « the possible exception', 
' mot cliché ', and ail that?]) be in the bouse somewhere. 
i and il are pair of my kit, and iii is moral kit. The 
appeal ad miserlcordiam. But, I repeat, that stuff is in the 
New House somewhere. 
l have written the outline of a melodrama about the 
Kaiser imprisoned on the island of Sheppey six months 
after the War, guarded by 6th R.B. It will be performed 
in the S. Hippodrome on Christmas Day; topical, and 
 depends largely for its success upon facial expression' 
The N.C.O.'s and riflemen comedians, who are acting, 
file in with turns of their own, which are clever, but also 
noisy and spinal, and there is a good deal of wedding guest 
about the whole thing, on my part. 
You had a sing-song last night, I make no doubt. Also 
you are correcting papers and drinking soups with A. E. K. 
at z.io a.m. 

To H. E. E. Howso. 8heerness. 
Decem3er z3, 9- 
Manumy love, and a reminder of the singing of ' The 
Holly and the Ivy' in the Man's cold room  that rime. 
A happy Christmas. 

' Photographs taken by A. E. K. ofthe School Corps on Caradoc 
at Church Stretton. 
= Just after the end ofone Winter terre, before Christmas. 



M. G.W. December i9iy i4y 

To H. E. E. Howsoi. 8keerness. 
December z7, 
I had the strangest Christmas Day. Most of it spent in 
the Sheerness Hippodrome, where I was part author and 
stage manager 

A GRAND REVUE 

B IFF AND BAFF 

with a chorus of 

COMPANY COMEDIENNES 

(thus the poster); 
which we rehearsed ail day for an evening's entertainment 
to the Bat-talion and their billet landladies. Some good 
comic men in the Battalion last evening. 
I went to the dock-yard church with Routh, and we had 
_/ldeste Fideles, but in English. 
Steuart Wilson and I went to hear Sapellnikoffyesterday 
in that saine Hippodrome, and a woman sang the worst 
songs in Europe. 
 Once in an old-vorld English country town, 
' I met a maid 
' Govaned in brown ; 
' It quite entvanced her loveliness." 
The notes were rather worse than the words, but it ended 
with a change of key and on a top A» so we ail applauded 
loudly and shivered, and I took in my Sam Browne belt one. 
I am well into I4ar and Peace (L. Tolstoy)--it was ver), 
heavy going at first, but I ara now excited about it. 



x4a M.G.W. January xgxa 
To H. E. E. Howsol. Sheerness. 
anuary xI I916. 
Route match this morning. At the head of the column 
I with a heavy pack argued solidlt all the wa)" round about 
respectability and Christianity ind church-going, and what 
a gentleman is etc. etc. 
Thank Kitch for his letter. Of course I bave read all 
Barry. * It is a wonderful book. 

To HIS SISTER AND BROTHER-IN-LAW. 8heerness. 
anuary z+,  I916. 
Thank you both very much for your greetingç to-day. 
Yes» l've had a good day» thank you ; listened to the hand 
all morning, and chose and criticised pieces for performance 
at Mess to-night, was a hare in a paper-chase this ifternoon, 
was caught by a swKt sergeant after plunging through dyke 
after dyke, had a good hot bath afterwards, and ara feeling 
fit, and propose (war or no war) to depart from my usual 
abstention and drink intoxicating Iiquor at dinner. 

 l(çligion and ti« V¢tar» by the Rev. F. R. Barry. 
 His birthday. 



CHAPTE 
E H. L. S. 

VI 

FEBRUARY TO JULY 916 

SooN after returning /rom leave, and on the day after 
White reached France, Southwell was transferred from D 
Company to take command of C Company. This was on 
Febmary o, and on the .oth the Battalion moved south 
from Belgium into France, moving b t, train to Halloy (where 
Southwell speaks of a great ride to get a football for his 
men), and then, by Occoches and Grand Rullecourt» to 
Sombrin and Simencourt, where he was again in the 
trenches. During this journey south he met White near 
Canaples. 
On March z a senior officer, Capt. Barclay, took over 
the command of C Company, though not for long. On 
April   Southwell started for England, but on reaching 
Boulogne tbund that all leave was cancelled, and had to 
return. On April OEo he regained the command of his 
Company, as Capt. Barclay was transferred to the st 
Battalion ; and it was about this time that Southwell was 
gazetted Captain. 
On May ÷ he was home on leave, and spent a dag 
at Shrewsbury. This is taken from a letter written about 
him after his death : 
' He was (as if by intuition) a « discerner of spirits ". 
But (most impressive of ail) he was strictly impartial. He 
never allowed one love to interfere with the claires of 

L z 



x 48 EH.L.S. February  9  6 
another. An instance of this occurred during his last 
leave. He left his parents during what might (and actually 
did) prove to be his last leave» in order that he might go 
to Shrewsbury and see young Blakeway who was ill. 
It was the saine during the months of his training on 
Salisburlt Plain. He was always going somewhere to see 
some one (often at a great distance) who he thought would 
wish to see him." 
After his leave he returned to the saine part of the line 
where he mentions little of military interest except a 
gas alarm» on May .o. From this rime onwards his letters 
and diaries are full ofthe coming of Summer. OnJune I I 
Capt. H. W. Garto% a fellow Etonian with whose 
brother he had rowed at Oxford rejoined the Battalion» and 
again Southwell lost the command of the Company to a 
senior officer. For a rime he was at the x4th Divisional 
School of Instruction at Hautevill% and then returned 
to the Battalion. 
On July  White was killed in an attack belote Mailly- 
Maillet. 
The story continues in Southwell's own words : 

DIARY 

$omkrin. Tuesday, Fel,. ?'9" 
We found we had qttite a good Mess room in one bous% 
with a kitchen on right ; beyond that, barn» with Officcrs' 
servants and some A.S.C. L. of that, bed-room used as 
sitting-room by A.S.C. and Oflïcers' servants by day. 
L.» black wood mantelpiec% plates» crucifix» and scent- 
bottles. Beneath it, recess for a store, but no tire there; 
still it was hot cold. Opposite the usual bisected stable 
door» light wood side-board  placard  Fête Nationale de 



E. H.L.S. March 96 49 
Jeanne d'Arc" (when is that?), copy of the ' Angelus'; 
left of that, big coloured plate of French uniforms, sur- 
mounted b t, France in chariot with two lions--' Triomphe 
de la Rép: Française'. R. ofthat, barometer. L. Centre, 
table, spotlessy clean, and with the inevitable oil-cloth. 
R. wall, dresser with out gramophonei ' Souvenir de la 
Mission de igz" (obscure, these missions). 
That afternoon we had a very successful outing ; the 
only Compan]z that went out, I thinl(. Ai three I marched 
and doublcd them out ofthe village  up the bill ; round an 
oblong field on right ; easy ; into ncxt field. Short speech 
on fitness by me in three lines  physical exercises ; doubled 
that field also. Rapid match down road ¼ toile more and 
back pretty smartly (about I4Z ). 
In the evening entered Lewis gunners on Company 
Roll and wrote to them. 
After that we listened to our gramophone and records 
we borrow from Irving. The chier features 1 have alreadï 
mentioned ; but to my huge delight Polgreen (B), who 
messed with us, brought his album with 8chuert's Unflnished 
çuartet, and I remembered the QEinby' evenings and my 
dIen. That was very good. 

,çomri. 14ed., dVlarch I 1 1916. 
Procession of boats  to-day, I wonder? It is fifteen 
years since I took part in my first, and a few things 
bave happened since then. 
This was one of the mornings when the C.S.M. and 
I agreed that after the War there would be a few funny 

 A friend with whom there used to be Chamber-Music at 
Shrewsbury on Saturday nights, White taking iart. 
- At Eton. 



I-o E.H.L.S. Match 1916 
things to look back upon. There was a lot of shuffling 
about of  1' and  C ' on the road» to the side of out real 
road» but the one on which we were drawn up waiting 
to join lhe colunan. We went down it sonae way» and 
helped» and turned about. Then ' B' came» of course 
through tlousands of lorres» all anyhow. So we had to 
shift down. Too far. lack. Not far enough. 8ack. 
About turn. Found old "t3 ' with its  second front section 
ofti3urs marking rime like good "uns» and nobody else giving 
a damn "» as I observed to the C.S.M. 
However» we did get going then, and had a pr«tty good 
match. Very cold» but fresh» and no one was very tired. 
It renainds nae that one does hOt ordinarily renaain as strong 
as one was belote conaing out--or soit seenas to nae. 
I naay be wrong» but I should say that I felt an eight nailes' 
naarch naore than I used to on the Plain. Of course» 
though» I have been ill since then, and also probably smoked 
too much; and I expect one is really no weaker in 
oneself. 
As I was saying» I ara afraid one becomes rather a 
beast of burden on these treks. I was absolutely happy» I 
think, on the whole of thena» or nearly so ; but just now 
the certain glory of the earth is hOt exacfly unremarked» 
but it is  noted" like a message frona H.O«, and I ana not 
content with that. 

Simencourt. Alar.  8. 
The Reformed Church of France at Icklcourt. 
It was a pretty little cbapel frona the outside, that stood 
next door to nay H.Qa _. Insde it was terribly ' refornaed ', 
for there was not a vestige of an altar of any kind ; only 
a huge pulpit with a canopy stood against the çarther wall, 



E. H. L.S. March I916 
and beneath that a lectern. Both places, and the gallery 
at what i will call the west end, had numerous service books, 
and books of other men's serinons, some of them old 
eighteenth-century tomes. There were also a great number 
of their ç Cantiques ', which were printed as though every 
one knew all about them and their origin, which I 
certainly do hot. They are a kind of potted Psalms in 
verse. 
Thus, appropriately, 
Ps. z. D'où vient ce bruit parmi les nations ? 
E. g. f./E. D. A quoi porte leur impuissante haine ? 
Peuples, pourquoi dans vos illusions 
g. b. a.g./F. Vous flattez-vous d'une espérance vaine ? 
Je vois hgues les princes de la terre 
• Dans leurs conseils ; les grands ont présumé 
D'être assez forts de déclarer la guerre 
A l'Eternel, à son Oint bien aimé. 
And Ps. i, with its so typical inversions :- 
Heureux celui qui fuit des vicieux 
Et le commerce et l'exemple odieux: 
Qi des pécheurs hait la triompheuse voie 
Et des moqueurs la criminelle joie, 
Qg_i, invoquant Dieu, ne se plaît qu'en sa loi 
Et nuit et jour la médite avec foi. 
(Fin.) 
It is full of 'Peuples, venez...', and the whole thing 
is obviously faithfully portrayed in Athalie. But I must 
ordy quote one more. After passing an ominous 
Mon Dieu, quelle guerre cruelle ! 
(hOt from a Psalm, I think), I came to-- 



Iy2 E, H. L.S. March 1916 
Luther's Hymn, to the usual tune s thus : 
C'est un rempart que notre Dieu, 
Si l'on nous fait injure ; 
Son bras puissant nous tiendra lieu 
Et de fort et d'armure. 
L'ennemi contre nous 
Redouble de courroux, 
Vaine colère [--Qe pourrait l'Adversaire ?w 
L'Eternel détonne sts coups. 
(Fin.) 
But 1 cannot let Haessler's tune go (hOt a Passion hymn 
this tune; it is called Cant: 49, but it is not ri-oto a 
Psalm) :- 
Jamais Dieu ne délaisse 
Q.9.i se confie en lui, 
Si le monde m'oppresse, 
Jésu est mon appui. 
Ce Dieu bon et fidèle 
Garde en sa paix les siens 
Pour la vie éternelle, 
Et les comble de biens. 
It is easily believed, as I write (on this gorgeous Spring 
morning) chez Briache, Arras, March I8. 
(The Book was published '63 and I must quote the end of 
the Avant-Propos. 
' Puisse... ce livre d'orgue contribuer puissamment... 
à relever le goût du chant sacré dans les assemblées de 
fidèles et dans les familles, et seconder fructueusement 
l'organiste dans sa belle et ainte mission.') 
The Cathedral. dVIar.  7  916. 
So belote breakfast I had found my way, though not too 
easily. Some cathedrals are easier to find than others ; 



E. H. L.S. March rgr6 x)'3 
their towers stiil stand to shew the way. Hcre it was not 
incongruous that the entry to the Cathedral was by the 
ruins of the Musée. I might have thought I had corne 
straight on the east end» for beforc roc lay a large altar 
with long rails. So true is it that men final thernselves in 
the Sanctuary unawales. But it was the south transept» so» 
as in duty bound, I rnade my way back to the left and round 
the west door. It is ail very Byzantine, of cours% and the 
resernblance to St. Paui's was increased by the ring of 
bouses below the high steps. But I have known good hours 
in St. Paul's, and anyhow the church is in ruins .... Yes» 
it has paid in full as no doubt bas many a penitent wlo 
bas stood wonderingly by the ruined confcssionals which 
line the aisle. Thit aisle is not so ruincd as the northern» 
and thus it carne that the inscriptions on the Stations of 
the Cross» though not the carving» still remained ; and 
selecting the one which bore tl:e number of rny Regirnent» 
I stood over against it by the pillar to look towards 
the chancel. I do not know whetler it was towcr or dome 
that lay in ruins a little farther east ; but though it was 
gone, the four central arches» with the deep blue of the 
spring sky for their only burden still stood to their post 
for the glory of God. Only one pigeon strutted past rne 
as 1 went ; but perhaps he felt his responsibilities for the 
lonely solemnity of his walk was liJie the mernory of a 
thousand vergers. It rnight indeed have becn his little 
protest when» later» a little piece of roof fell at my feet  
for he passed me flying on his way to the arches a moment 
before it came. But I was now at the Chancel steps» 
and before rne lay the altar with its image and inscription 
 Ave Regina Caeli ' 
in gold on Nue. No wonder if Our Lady of Lourdes 



 '4 E.H.L.S. March  9  6 
veiled her head beneath a huge canvas sheet» for it was too 
much of an irony that she should look for ever t'owards 
a deso!ate altar with the legend 
' Autel PriviIégié à Perpetuité' 
But it was hOt really to end sadly, my little visit; 
for something like a triumphant cry from the ruins awaited 
me at the door as I went out. For tbere, on the battered 
walI, stood out this rudeIy scratched memorial, which as I 
read, I remembered the glorious endurances ofthis adorable 
peopl% and I thought with envy of the heroes who had 
perhaps this for their only commemoratio% and for 
type the four unbroken arches ofthe nav% that reached up 
towards the Spring to bear lope ontbeir shoulders :-- 
' Honneur aux 
Braves Poilus du Nème qui ont £ait tout leur devoir.' 

dIlarch zo. 
 a.m. Down the street past H.Q:_. murmuring 
' As long as they let me more about..." 
p.m. Robert Radford singing Nazareth (actually as 
write, in our sitting-room chez Briache) on gramophone. 
heard him at Hereford Festival, from The Chantry with 
C. A.A. 
' Though poor be the chamber .... ' 

We go in to-night. 21larch z I. 
At this moment me voilà de retour fi'om the little 
church of Achicourt. I went on the H.Q<_. orderIy's cycle 
to return the Livre d'Orgue I took away to copy those 
hymns from. So I returned that book, and I stayed for 
a few moments ia that little gallery. ' The Lord of 



E. H. L.S. April 96 
Hosts is with us', and thrice, ' Underneath are the ev¢r- 
lasting arms '. I know now what Odysseus rneant by his 
action on returning : 
• ç,8 " 
Or rather I bave known it before» as long ago as 
Houtkerque. 
I was not altogether dry of eyc, though btfore ever I 
started. For I had been reading C. A. A.'s letter about 
both of us trying to build the New Jerusalem: ¢and 
though neither your trenches" . . may be very showy bricks 
let's hope they'll be used in the basement.' I read that 
out at tea to C Company oNccrs, and they applauded it 
not a little» and I round myself to my amazemcnt nearly 
choking. 
Ioday» pril 3 x96" 
 There is an ocer * corning to sce your trenches»' said 
the Adjurant on the 'phone.  I want you to hand over the 
Cornpany to him.No end of a man,' he went on; 
 Military Cross» Captain xst R.B.» and ail that.' 
That was a bit sudden but obviously tbr the enor- 
mous advtage of the Company ; and as I said in my 
lettcr bornes this war is hot being run entirely to gratify the 
ambitions of fourth-rate and unimportallt subalterns! . . . 
So that's that» and now behold me once more a subaltern» 
under authority better than any I ever exerciseds and kely 
to bave yet another chance of learning my job[ Perhaps I 
may be a soldier yet if the war lasts long enoun .... 
To-day's gossip is rather thn. It appears some French- 
man has prophesied that the war will be over in 9 6 
bours from this morning ] The oflCsive at Verdun is to 
break down then» and that means the end. So that was 
• Capt. Barclay. 



)-6 E.H.L.S. April 96 
why the men in tle butts to-day rnight bave been heard 
quite solernnly (bless their simple souls !) saying  Yes, I got 
that at two this afternoon; so we won't be long in the 
trenches this next trip!' 
Sorne one should really write a book on war rumours 
and gossip; et would be quite as entertaining as the real 
history. 
lednesdas "eiP rll 5. 
I biked on ahead during the afternoon to  tke over' as 
I generally do. I took et being day» the usual longer route 
behind the hills:--Simencourt--Berneville--WarlusmDain- 
villeAchicourt, lut this rime I had to push rny machine 
down railway for ¼ mil% the last bit of road being closed by 
day» and I was pretty hot wben I arrived at the little chapel. 
For as usual I did hot forger to stop tlere. 1 bave corne to 
love that little village behind tl.e line as indeed so many 
other places out Lere ; and et will I hope» be long before I 
forger et and the quaint little Reformed Church of France 
in which on more than one occasion now I bave founct 
peacefulness and sanctuary. 
ICnesday pril  z. 
A very delightful and easy morning. Trayler had the 
gramophone, and again we had of cours% Kirkby Lunn 
singing O Lovely Night '» and a Mess Allen singing 
« Who'll buy rny strawberries ?' After tea we caught two 
rnotor lorries which took us to St. Pol twenty rniles away. 
This was a great run ; et poured with rai% but the run did 
me good and I thought with enthusiasrn of rnany places. 
•.. It was glorious to have Merry with rne all the terne. 
St. Pol was exciting because et held shops and lit 
windows ; and I delighted rnyselfin gazing with eyes glued 
to tlese, at anything, however garish, exposed in the 



E.H.L.S. April x9 6 y7 
window. I bought several post-cards and an Easter card or 
two. One, like my old Houtkerque, was entitled 
 Until to End', 
and lacked something in the way of Idiom. 

I4/'ednesday to Thursday» wtpril  - . 
The train i left at 12.3o ; therefore we boarded at IO,30 , 
and slept fairly well. Very uncomfo,oEable as there were 
too few Firsts, but we did hOt mind when eventually we did 
get to Boulogne. Dawn came cold, but by 9.o or so it was 
warm and fine, and things were looking very rosy indeed 
as we marched out of the train towards out big breakfast at 
the usual buffet at the station. 
At 2.3o in came an officer of the Cheshires :--« AI1 Leave 
cancelled: notice up at A.bl.C.O.'s of2fice." A joke, we 
thought ; but no. 
\Vell oit I went to the Qai and there it was:  Ail 
officers and men on leave v:ill reç»ire" (silly idiom that !)  to 
return to their units. Those proceeding on duty to England 
will continue journey. Further announcements later." 
* Oh so that's it is it ?" we thought. Explanation obvious ; 
Ypres, Verdun and Arras all taken London in flames 
fleet at the bottom of Channel» entire B.E.F. on verge 
of extermination. At least what 1 really thought was 
not quite that: I thought probably the Hun had made a 
bit of a success of some attack on Verdun and got near 
enough to make it advisable for everybody to  stand 
by'. That doesn't seem to be the case; at least l've 
not read of such a thing. One explanation is that it 
is a traffic marrer in England merely ; but in any case 
I needn't waste rime (and carbon) by more guesses, as 

 The Leave-train. 



8 E.H.L.S. April 96 
we simply dotx't know at ail. Nor do we know if and when 
leave will re-open ; some are uite optimistic others think 
it may be lolg. 
Well» that as a dreary afternoot for many an expec- 
tant sol of a family. I did the best thing for myself by 
sleepilg two hours in the botel. 
ipri l 
lut ail was not black for anothër reason. Three men 
of  th Battalio happeed to be returning from Leave 
tlat night, so I was able to sec them and talk of old days. 
There was Mackworth of Magdalen now attached to 
Div. H.Q. (  Qa_. branch' f think he said, and Jackso% now 
Cptain and Adjurant ; also Pugh. We sat round talking 
Masonry with Mackworth for a long time and what he 
told us more than anything I had heard belote, was rather 
thrilli,g. The search for the Narne of God sounded a taairy 
tale a,d it is amazing how far they all seem to believe irt 
it. I ought to be a parso% certainlywho knows ? 
Breakfast next day at the Ocers' Club at Boulogne; very 
convenient plac% and o,e well worth klowing for the 
next occasion if it comesor whe» for I ara still opti- 
mistic. Followed by a long sleep which lasted till Amiens 
where we got out. Here came the unique odour of France 
straight to me as I came out of the station with Meiiy 
and I was in a great state of delight. We wint to look at 
the Cathedral ad I found there everything, that my 
wildest dreams of Gothic had boped for. It was a Spring 
morning ; and there was tle Cathedral of Amiens» and I 
hoped that it marked the dawn to a xew age. 
« Une nouvelle inspiration tous les jours' 
I round myself asking for (quite unconscious that» as 
offert» I was prayiag in French) by tle west door. 



E. H. L.S. April 96 

211onday, lpril 1 7 » 1 9 1 6. 
A day more absolutely devoid ofsalt I do not wish to see. 
It poured» and as usual in this rather beloved spot in Spring, 
I resent it furiously. 
The touch of light came in my short visit to the 
Cathedral whcre I ceremoniously set a statue on its feet 
and after encouraging a poor headless divine in the vestry» 
passed on to the Holy Chapel. 
Fury again at night» getting split up in the wire coming 
home over a « short cut '. 

Thursda), lpril 
It is not for every one to stand on the summit ofa Cathe- 
dral Tower from the insid% but that was my cxperience 
this morning ; I having gone there before breakfast. For 
the first rime this week I saw sunshine and blue sky» and it 
was worth seeing after this miserable week» how the white 
clouds came across the blue over the broken church like 
vengeance towards the Hun lines. Opening the Bre- 
viary (bought at Hazebrouck in December) at Jeudi Saint» 
[ found 
« Zelus domus tuae comedit me ". 
My father's favourite psŒElm» by the way, is l zz» and it 
was here that two or three days ago I murmured it through 
entirely to the  Beethoven' chant. At Home Farm (by 
Bivelen Château) in February it used to be 7» with good 
reason in the evening. 

Rest of tour till dVlay 4, ray Leave day. 
The outstanding feature was the route raarch on what I 
take to be Wednesday. It was to be eight toiles» and I 
round a way that ruade what I calculated to be x3»6oo 



6o E.H.L.S. April r96 
,ards and perfectly glorious. The route is on my xf+oooo 
map at the top and mainl), remarkable for the fact that it 
had a most glorious halt right on a hill overlooking village 
after village of this beautiful plain. Also it was on high 
ground nearly all the wab and the men thoroughly enjo),ed 
it I think» though it was quite hot (after my liking this) : 
I gave them twenty minutes" halt at that place» which 
pleased them I think. We want lots more of this hot 
weather to sweat the damp and rheumatism out o£ our old 
bones. 
« Le temps a laissé son manteau" • 
wrote M. G. W. to me at this period ; and I replied on 
C. OEioEl :me Ref: manteau. Yes Man ; and Rupert Brooke 
would bave liked the lilac that grows outside my window." 
O.C. Coy. agaln. It seemed strange to be this again walk- 
ing about this delightful village, where three weeks ago I 
had just been deprived of the post by friend Barclay and 
was not feeling in at ail good spirits. Also it was almost 
Summer now, and then there was frost ; and our billet was 
far better, and there was a suggestion of the Plain ; and the 
lilac and chestnut are right out, and I was going on Leave, 
and ready to see my people, and England. 

Bapton alanor. (l¢ritten hile on Leave.) 
It is wonderful moonlight over the Wylye Valley and I 
ara at the window of my childhood's bed-room. My pencil 
is in my hand but I could hot reach my only remedy in 
expressionmnot, I was going to say, if I sat for ten years ; 
but that would be even more hopeless--I should have to 
lire twenty-five years backwards. For as I sit here there 

 Charles d'Orléans : Pndeau .... See pages 18 3 and z41. 



.. H. L.S. May 1916 161 
rushes in upon me the inconceivable throng with which 
have for twenty-five years Feopled this country--ail the men 
and women of nay reading, and of nay dreams. One da)" 
I will take ink and paper and I will try and set sonae of 
them down ; at present I content myself with saluting the 
old cedar-tree under whose arbour Tracy T. kissed tEe 
spinster aunt, and the old lady's pronaenade to it trona tle 
house. But it is all Dingley Dell, and 1 ana hot here to 
annotate t'icki«k. 
Ho! the naalady ffom which i surfer is the naenaoy of 
the water-naeadows, so old and so young: and I cannot 
think how I shall ever deliver my soul of it. Of course» 
knov everyïnch of thena through and through» fr(na here to 
Fisherton de 1oE Mere. The old gare I used to swing on, 
that is gone : but the bridges remain, and the swaying weeds, 
and the still fisles, and the little hatcl:es, and tle incredible, 
deep unapproachableness of the riverdeep water and 
don't you go too close'and the bare possibility of eing 
drawn into the mill ; the snaell of the naill» and of the wet 
naeadows ; the strange ventures of nay thrown sticks and 
boats beneath the bridges ; the river over wlich the garden 
leans» and tle ditch along the gardert towards itah, 
Wilcot, where are you ? Sonaewhere jealous and beyond 
the Downs ? Ah» but I am sprung from this valky ; thee 
is no drop of water in the nayriad streanas but bas its kin 
in nay veins. 
The Ga llarm. Saturday and Sunday. 
2lay zc-zI» 1916. 
It seems rather hunaorous this lovely morning, as I write 
in Elliott's quiet roona but it did hot at the rime. As it 
happened I was very nauch awake, having spent many hours 
in collecting standing orders from old Battalion Orders for 



x;2 ]2. H. L.S. May 96 
some months back, and indexing them, and altogether 
having rather an efficient and amusing gaine by myself. 
So when I heard Ping ! Hng !! on the horn, I thought ' No, 
that can't be the harmonium in the Chapel next door  it 
is Gas this time '. So 1 started no end of a fanfaxonade on 
my whistle ; and judging from impressions left on some of 
the men, this part of the show at least seems to have bcen 
rather a success. I was alluded to several rimes as  they' 
with « their whistles'; and my orderly thought--there were 
ten men blowing! 

+th Divlsional School of Instruction. 
une I916. 
Some Recollections of Several Fine People. 
Sth K.R.R.ç. Rogers. This was a magnificent thing of a 
man in his way : huge deep voice and command like a bull : 
knew Irving and Fairbairn and Day in the Artists, from which, 
I think he has recently got his commission. He was the 
hero of our little cricket-match. I shall never forget him 
danchag round hanging on to the roof the whil% to the 
tune of' Oh etc. etc.' in the "bus coming back from the 
Sniping School. He would be a dark man with what would 
go for a firm chin and a decided personality» and the words 
of his mouth were powerful hearing. 
9th R. 13. 1. H. L.S. Not very good. 
Capt. Benskin» R.E.s D.S.O. He and the Colonel and 
I had a terrific argument over education orte night; 
he was all for modern things and of course French 
and I were very much on opposite sides» and I didn't 
get very far, though he was quite delighted with my 
V.' which 1 shewed him. Curiously enough letter 
from Ronnie next day quoting a remark of K.  that Latin 
 Lord Kitchener. 



E. H. L.S. June 1916 1¢ 3 
Prose taught him more than anything else: but Benskin 
merc]y argued that/)e wou]d have thriven on any rare. 

Sunda,, yune 18. 
On this day I had a very wonderful walk in the morning, 
starting soon after breakfast, alone. Throughout all this 
trip thre was a lot of excitement over Keats' Nigktingale, 
though I did not tZail to rcalise at the time that it would 
not do to soak too much in it, in vicw of the circumstanccs 
of the reader out here! I kncw with a quite physical 
realisation what he meant by : « Fade far away, dissolve, and 
quite forger' . . . that morning. It was at the corner 
between the cover and the wood ; and there the road cornes 
swooping round as though it knew the arms of all the lairics 
were opening in the wood below .... 
To get to the village I ruade across ½ R. and then turned 
sharp left down the road. Perhaps the village was more 
adorable than anything I have scen since Houtkerque, and 
it would be absurd to deny that in itself it is much more 
beauti_thl. The road through the village climbs slowly up 
the hill like a piIgrim to the church on the hill-top ; and 
it seemed in most English wise that it loitered by pools 
and official bouse corners as it rose. Finally the church 
reminded me tremendously of some little church on the 
Plain; with its avenue of chestnuts diagonally leading to 
the little door, and its little cemetery, and the big trecs 
and curé's house around. 
In the evening Hall and I went to Noyelle again, this 
time making fbr the next village beyond it. Hall, by 
the way, is one of the privilcged peoplc to whom I havc 
lent Tke Patb to Rome. The othcrs, I think I havc noted 
in the book. 



I64 

E.H.L.S. February 9 
LETTERS 

To HIS FaTHER. B.E.F. TP, e Farm. 
Feb. -.., 1916. 
We came out absolutely « fiat-out" into the f.rm last 
night» the men quite exhausted after a bad rime. I am 
temendously happy to be here at test for two or three 
days; so are the men. It was grand to see how they 
looE'ed a test in the mud of the road coming down last night» 
f:.lling asleep constantly in some cases. It is rather fun 
whcn it's over ; the mere physical delight of a chair when 
ou are pretty well exhausted the walk in the air (fresh 
and hot foul) before a very Iate breakfast back here» the 
comparative silence ; the chance of writing a Ietter, of 
reading a book, of hearing the dear old sad songs of the 
British Infantry, which thrill me whenever I hear them, 
because [ know the men» poor hardly-used creatures, are 
happy açter a bad rime. They bave had an exhausting w¢ek. 
Yes one does corne into one's own with the Psalms. 
One of the wisest remarks of Hilaire Belloc in Tbe Faut 2len 
is where he curses a ertain poet for his  dreadful innocence 
of the great emotions'. I do hot see how tese eau be 
sufered and enjoyed except in war. (And of course your 
i zz is the pick. How often have my thoughts gone back 
 turribus tuis ',* with a murmur of « Rogate quae ad pacem 
sunt Jerusalem' !) He did know what it was to be alter- 
nately in dangerous places and out of them ! 

To C. A. ALINGTON. 

' Will I please ', says the Adjutant, 
of C Company from now ?" 

B.E.F. 
Feb. fo, 1916. 
« take over command 

* Psalm 1,- z. « I was glad when they said unto me : 
into the bouse of the Lord.' 

We will go • 



E. H. L.S. February  9  6  6- 

The O.C. C Company (Roberts, a great Cambridge 
cricketer I think)was killed in what would have bcen 
probably his very last tour of inspection of his trenches, the 
foulest, most unspeakable and battle-scarred, I suppose, in 
the world : it is there that--oh well, I mustn't put in horrors. 
This was two nights ago, and for thirty-six hours 1 bave been 
in his sb.oes with a feeling of something like remorse at the 
dreadful noiseless continuity, so typical of the Army, with 
which the place he leaves is (nominally) filled. Companies 
are so scattered here that we see little of each other, and 
I knew him only slightly; but he was much liked and is 
terribly hard to follow. 
It would be silly to pretend that I ara not pleased with 
this very unexpected lift up, however irreverent I may feel 
to my predecessor's memory. It is a big opportunity, in 
its way, after all, and I only wish I were more equal to it. 
This is rather a heavy letter, I ara afraid ; having got what 
I often wanted, but saw no likelihood of getting, I can't 
help feeling rather a worm ! In fact, I need a pastoral epistle 
rather badly for man), reasons, and wou!d be grateftfl il: I 
could have it, from you. 

To HIS MOTHER. B.E.F. 
Feb. 17., 1916. 
I write this right back out--we've trained and marctxed 
back to within a toile of out month's rest billets. That's 
the news as far as it goes, and I suppose it will allay anxiety 
for the present. I wrote a letter in the trenches to an old 
Salopian on his entering the sector to relieve us, in which 
I said quite truthful.ly that (though I was perhaps foolishly 
sentimental, and partly lying) I couldn't leave that sector 
çuite without a pang. After all there is nothing like it on 
earth nor I suppos% ever will be. It's not a bed of roses 



 6 6 E.H.L.S. February I9 1 6 
exactlysee the casualty lists recently and those to come 
but I would hOt bave missed being there for worlds. 
To HIS FATHER. B.E.F. 
Fe. I+, I916. 
I'm so sorry to hear you're har are carnat with a cold. 
l remember rather enjoying the gaine called lronchial 
Catarrh at Eton, where you had to stay in bed for fear it 
should become pneumonia, and yet fe!t quite wcll and read 
like anything, I read Lama Daane under those conditions 
and loved it. This matter of novel-reading was ære,ented 
to me as a duty (!) at Shrewsbury. 
I bave lately corne to believe, as A. C. Benson would say, 
that there's a lot in this, and that the busier I ara (and of 
course I ara far more so now as O.C. Coy.), the more 
necessar), it is that I should try and get this bit of reading; 
provided, of course, that I don't let it get to mare than a bit ! 
To HIS FATHER, B.E.F. 
Fel. 17, 1916. 
The arrival of Sir D. Haig down the road was rather 
picturesque. Unfortunately I had, like all O.'s C. Coys., 
to give out that rnen muxt look straight to their front and 
not follow him with their heads, and therefore I had to 
keep my own straight. So it came about that I saw literally 
nothing except the great man himself when on the ground. 
But coming down the road, as I said, it was picturesque ; 
the C.-in-C. and the Army Commander and their staff(or 
rather halfa dozen ofthem) and six Lancers and the Corporal 
carrying the Union Jack, behind ; it was this very mediaeval 
procession, trotting clown the road a quarter of a toile from 
the field, that we could ail bave a look at and which was 
very striking. When he came on we had the usual busi- 
ness; the bugle sounded and we gave the General Salute by 



E. H. L.S. February z 9 z 6 z67 

]3attalions. Then he rode down past each Battalion, when 
I could have had a good look at everybody if it would have 
done: and as t, ou ma t, guess, I swivelled m t, eyes round a 
bit, onllr taking care to keep m t, head straight. However 
the effect was that it was not until I round him bending 
down from lais horse and asking me how long I'd been out, 
and « had I been quite fit all the time ?' that I realised he 
was upon me. I don't know at how many Company 
Commande's l:e stopped ; quite likely at ail, though I don't 
think he did. It was unfortunate that of two remarks, 
with which I have favoured the C.-in-C., one was a lie! 
But the alternatives were :--(i)  Yes, Sir.' ()  Well, Sir 
now t,ou corne to mention it I did catch a slight chill in 
the lines, and had a short spdl in hospital at Hazebrouck ; 
you know the place, perhaps, Sir: very nice people they 
were indeed." So rather than hold up the great man and 
the Army Commander and other brass-hatted gentry 
and the whole Brigade with these truthful particulars, I 
chose (I)» and I hope the Recording Angel rea-lised that 
I was only doing what any but the very coolest of soldiers 
could very well presume to do. 

To HtS FATHER. B.E.F. 
Feb. zz, 1916. 
You would all adore this place, but you couldn't have 
anything like the huge joy with which I regard every inch 
of it ; you want +½ months in the flats to get the best out 
ofthe Downs. That is what they are. I couldn't think, 
tbr a moment, to-day why I felt Bapton when the train went 
by, till I realised that it ruade precisely the same noise 
under the big Downs as the G.W. trains there. Then for 
Mure there would be a watertZall, with a big mill-wheel 
turning and pounding away by the side. 



 68 E.H.L.S. February , 9  6 
And to-day the Company couldn't get a football; so I 
rode off to a town (hOt the big one, but it had lots of shops, 
and I had hopesJ three mi]es off: no good : three more in 
a diflerent direction to a small village» where the town man 
said there was a  fabriquant de ballons' (glorious phrase !), 
and in doing so I got up about 6oo feet» I suppose, and beheld 
the earth and it was a good place : (I got the football» old 
but passable; his last). I write in bed (absurd luxury), 
rather uneasily in this position» but anyhow I could hOt add 
much of value to this description of a very happy day. 

To R. A. KNox. B.E.F. 
Feb. zz, x9x6. 
It is terribly lat% but after all we are in billets» miks 
and mlles from the old district, and comparatively luxurious 
ones» so I could have no excuse for not writing (in bed too: 
ab.urd prosperity !). 
So you have taken a leaf out of my history» bave you ? 
I was a little taken aback on hearing I had to bave the 
operation, but it was explained next day that shace about 
tb.e nineties the operation is about the simplest going. 
* This may be all very well' as the Rev. Mr. Rolles said ; 
' it may be excellently well': but that can't prevent my 
being aw/hlly sorry to hear about it all. 
I can only hope everything will go as well with you as it 
did with me» and that you'll enjoy the convalescent period 
as much and as soon. Being a lazy individual, and very 
tired for some reason at that period of the terre» I had a 
glorious rime in bed reading books ; C. A. A. gave me 
Tante» I remember» to my great delight» and I waded 
through practically all Shaw's plays and prefaces again: 
and the Man sent me Syng% and I got excited again about 
Deirdre and Emain. And there was the great morrfing 



E. H. L.S. February I9 16 I6 9 

when I felt practically ,well so long as I kept still, and after 
waking up turned over and lit a candle very early, and re- 
flected that I had the whole day to read, if I liked, and that 
it was all rather fun. All this unholy glee in complete 
idleness may hot corne your way so fully, but I hope some 
of it may. Meanwhile the Man is within one toile of me 
as 1 sit, and I ara just going over to tea there with him. 
It is strange. A cathedral town is within a dozen toiles 
o c us; hot the one where he lived years back, but a good 
place. I hope to get there. 
, from which you will infer this is the next day. I 
ara now at tea with the Man, who will add a statement. 
Good-bye for the prescnt and good luck. 

To HIS //IOTHER. B.E.F. 
Feb. z7, 1916. 
To-day was Sunday. And there was Celebration in 
the school here, and we knelt at the familiar desks in the 
familiar room all hung with maps» and I remembered that 
1 was a schoo!master too: and I saw the familiar black- 
board ; also I reflected that 1 could not write on it so 
beautifully as the (doubtless) dear old painstaking master 
of the little village. And I thought of you all» and 
wondered whether you knew I was doing so. Only last 
night one ofmy officers produced the Golden Treasury» and 
I turned up c The Blessed Damozel ' of Rossetti» and came 
at once across the passage where the two are praying, 
widdy separated, as we are :- 
Are not two prayers a perfect strength ? 
And shall I feel afraid? 
And I said ' Tl:ank you', and I dosed the book and 1 
thought of my home. 



7o E.H.L. 3. February 96 
To C. A. ALINGTON. B.E,.F. 
Feb. OET» 1916" 
We had two or three days of great peacefulness several 
miles behind our old line; then travelled northwards to 
some most adorable country very like English Downs: I 
scoured fifteen mlles of them one glorious morning in 
search of a fobtball on my pony (and got it) for the 
Company; a funny thing it was too, but it did ail right. 
Two days there was all we got, but oh! the incredible 
old ladies of my billet. One was 93 ad the other 7% I 
suppose ; a mother and daughter. The latter was iii and 
rheumatic, and the mother fo!lowed her every motion with 
the eyes of one looking after a child. Yes and when one 
of my officers went in to find billets, she caught him 
affectionately by the arm and said « Remember "7 o " .... It is 
so far better than Alphonse Daudet! Since leaving there 
we have marched a couple of days, sideways with regard to 
the line, in ShOW ; bitterly cold weather and miserable 
billets--for the men, I fear: the officers managefl better ; 
we had a house of some kind and could keep out of the cold, 
which pierced the barris where the Company was. But it's 
hot easy tobe quite happy with the knowledge that one is 
probably one of perhaps four or rive who aren't pretty 
miserable--or a-t least so one would think: but they are 
ver), wonderful with it all. 
Many thanks for your letter, which I was delighted to get. 
l'm still awaiting the epistle for which I asked, and hope 
to get it soon (our letters crossed). Not that I'm unhappy 
at all ; but l'm just getting a touch of the ' fed-upness" 
which seems to come on some people wh&ve been out some 
rime, and it's much too early. Besides, I'm hOt really fed 
up ; only one easily gets rather to lose sight of one's ideals 
and lie about so to speak ; and having just got my Compan:/ 



E. H. L.S. March gza 
this won't do. Can you understand ? I expect you can. 
And the Communion Service to-day was in a schoolroom, 
and I felt rath less contemptiblc than usual. 

To HIS MOTHER. B.E.F. 
Situation unchanged. 
3larch 1 I, 1916. 
The only curious thing is the discovery of a way to get 
into the ruined Protestant Church next my bilkt; hOt 
badly ruined, but with broken windows and a fcw stones 
shelled loose through the roof (never hit directI7, I should 
say, but shaken). So to-morrow the Padre (who lires and 
will lire for tle next w¢ek with us) will celebrate there, 
among the ruins. Rather sadder, I can't Lelp feeling, 
these villages which have hot really been deserted altogether, 
and whose Church shows signs of a very recent Service-- 
more so, I fee], than a Church like Ypres, completely 
ruined and abandoned ages since ; for the tragedy is still 

breathing. 
To R. A. KNox. 

I ara glad you're going on so fast. 

B.E.F. 
2Vlarch II, I916. 
Yes» you've beaten 

me in some ways.: but l'm not so sure about the morphia. 
There the advantage lies, I feel, with me. I remember 
being a little proud ofthat episode : it is hot for everybody 
to feel the mild suggestion of devilry incident to it--as 
though one had a little secret which only needed advertise- 
ment to make (as Walter de la Mare bas it) ¢ Cold voices 
whisper and say "NHe /:aS taken _hloraOtda. 
l'm Town Major of somewhere: isn't it fun ? This 
distinguished honour is however to be wrested from me, 
when we more in two days, by the Company Commander 



I72 ]ï. H. L.S. March 96 
who takes over my billets : still, to be addressed as ' M. le 
Major" even for a few days is something. It means busy 
times, however, so I must let this short scrawl go. 
To R. F. }AILEY, B.E.F. 
lar. 1916. 
What about that Polonius z scene» by the way ? 
Men» it's not such fun being a Company Commander as 
it might seem» if you're incompetent. Tell Kitch ; and 
that I really will write when I can. Tell J. O. W. ditto, 
and thank him very much for lovely book»  which l've just 
had time to open for the first time almost (except the 
Rupert Brooke sonnet» which I read at once). I wish I 
was not such a fool» Men» by God I do. 
To ms MOTHER. B.E.F. 
2larch Iç» I916. 
Here again we are now in a good bouse, belonging to the 
owner of the big factory over the way (which, by the way, 
is a useful buoEer for shells when they corne over, and the 
Bosche bas hOt been altogether asleep ]ately). What I 
cannot bring myselfto grasp is the situation about all these 
empty bouses» evidently left in a hurry and full to the brim 
with books and property. Empty ruined bouses I think I 
may claire to bave some experience of» after Ypres: but here 
somehow the pathos of the thing is all alive ; every house 
scems only just left, and more sadly. Yet why one should 
be more moved by one deserted boudoir (to which the 
owner will perhaps return) than by ten thousand bornes 
desolated beyond all hope of repair» that is a question 
I cannot answer. 
* This letrer was writren rioto near Arras. 



E. H. L.S. çlarch :9:6 :73 

To J. o. WHITFIELD. #larch I7, t9I%* 
(*sic. Corne, corne, my man--after z½ montbs. . . ) 
Wash out apologies and let me get on. They'le so badly 
due that they'ld fill ail my letter. Yours was a very fine 
letter and I loved getting it. Yes, tle little book  is 
delightful. 1 agree about Rupert Brooke and Jian Grcn- 
fell, and I suppose about Newbolt but I'm not sure. One's 
values fluctuate so strange]y out here. Some things are 
spinal at home but bearable and even good out her% because 
they simply dcpict what Belloc called « the great emotions '. 
In fact it is no exaggeration to say that I have known a poem 
or a verse, or whatever it may b% to be intolerably spinal 
in billet% and very near one's heart twenty-ur hours later 
in theline. And though 1 am now in billctsbillets of an 
incredible Mnd» to% in a large town within a distance from 
the Hun that is only measured in thousand yard strctcV, es 
(incredible how few)even so I can just summon up enough 
memories of F 3 ç  to make me guess that given the right 
condition% the poem might be în inspiration. In ct it 
bas been in its way. Your reply will be that it may  
near reality but it is not Art ; and I think (for I ara in 
billets) you are right. 
Curiously the Man gave me a copy of the Oxford Pocket 
Virgil : it arrived at ' A' buts (I don't know why I put that 
in, except to please myself with memofies of that mud- 
bath ; for you don't know where it i% and thank God it's 
not here, though I love to remember itnow isn't that 
absurd ?)it arfived as I say just after Chfistmas» and 
I read the 4th Eclogue again as you did I think. It 
is very good of you to suggest it.Ah but this is a lovely 
place, l've just stuck my hcad out of the windov, to 
t t trie Front.  A trench. 

(A) 



174 ]. H. L.S. March x 9 x 6 
send for an orderly to take a message which l've written 
since point (A). Spring's coming» ),ou know» and there 
will be Pipp% and blue sky over the cathedral to substitutc 
for the tower (or dome was it ? Who knows ?) that lies now 
at the foot of the chancel steps» and to be carried by the 
still standing four great central arches. Steady a minute ; 
I'm going to make a statement now. I was in there this 
morning and you shall bave the benefit (?) of it. 1 must 
make a statcment in my diar)bZ now» and you shall have it 
in carbon. I ara sorry for you» but I ara rather excited, 
and you began it. Excuse me while I get my book .... 
No--Wash-out. « Dcath and the Maiden " on out gramo- 
phone!!! By the way» I belicve there's a war on: one 
forgets it here.., there's the air back again.., and the 
• . . Ah well» but that was ver),» ,'ery good. The next 
tune is (I greatly fear) likely to be spinality by Landon 
Ronald. WelI» no» but it's ail about a  bird of love 
divine" ; tant pis. 
Now then» I will shew you how a man runs upstairs to 
get his diary. Ach! the.,spinal applau-catcher, the top 
note. I'm off. 
1 think I was saying when that business beganall the 
fault of that rderly, really--that I was very grateful for 
your very kind offer of a book; and when people are kind 
enough to do that sort of thing» it is only a fool who 
throws away his opportunity! Let me therefore indicate 
firmly that I do hot possess the Shropshire Lad» and never 
did» and that it is rather absurd. The Man used to have 
a greea cloth edition which I have fingered for years ; and 
l believe» if you would be so very kind as to send me one 
like that, I should be very happy. I should be in easy time 
i Page  5 z. TIe Catloedral. 
 Schubert's String uartet in D minor (zÆd mo'oement). 



E. H. L.S. April I916 
for the « Cherry ', (There is nothing like asking for things 
in this world !) 

To HIS MOTHER. B.J.F. 
Match 19, 1916. 
It is my birthday, and at midnight exactly I stood in the 
trenches, and forgot for the moment about the working 
party I was with, and thought of you ai1, hot forgetting to 
look carefully in what I took tobe the direction of Lichfield, 
and to think that that was a good place to be born in 
thirty (!) years ago. « Please detail oflïcer and tbrty men 
of your Cmpany" went the order, to work at trenches 
and so-and-so. So I thought I could do no better than 
inaugurate my birthday by a bit of ,work ; it might be an 
omen for a changed future ! 
So here I ara» feeling well and happy, thank you, except 
that I would like to be spending my birthday with you all 
instead of here. Still, of all places out here, we've certainly 
chosen the best to celebrate it in. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. B.E.F. 
lpril z, 1916. 
' Pretending I like it,' you say. Ycs, and (though I had 
evidently a decided fit of the dumps when I last wrote) the 
pretence is quite convincing, to me. I reall), think that 
was the only period when I was definitdy a little fed up, 
ever since I joined: and that was probably because we'd 
been out of the trenches too long, and our « tre.k' period, 
with the constant fuss over billets night after night, was 
getting tiresomely long. Since then we've been in again, 
and had the most infernal time I remember from the weather, 
though the Hun was evidently so equally miserable that the 
firing was very small. 



176 E.H.L.S. ApriI 1916 
We are all feeltng much better, thank you ; for here we 
are sitting in the open air, and the men are writing home, 
bless their souls (till we corne to the job of censoring this 
evening), and the sun is glorious» and the show seems really 
gone this rime. 
Vell, as I was saying, things are pretty wdl, really; 
I think I was depressed, when I wrote, to a considerable 
extent, but your letter cured me at the time. Curiously, 
when I first read it, I expected more ghostly admonition 
(and still do, for that matter) and said, ' Yes, but...' and 
put it in my pocket. 
Yet when I remarked to my oflïcers that evening, ¢ [sn't 
this rather fine reading?' and proceeded to read a bit of 
your letter, I found to my amazement (and theirs, if they 
noticed it ; but I doubt if they did, for it was listened to in 
spell-bound silence, and they were vastly impressed, I know) 
that I could not quite read the last page with a steady voice. 
Ah ! yes, that was a good letter. 
Meanwhile Pitcairn eones * fs here, and I hailed him xvith 
a shout of delight down the trench telephone. It is a very 
good business, this. 
l've hot seen White again since out great meeting in the 
South. But his Battalion's quite near again, and if he's 
back from leave I hope to see him soon. It was very sad, 
that sudden news about his father. 2 
I send this to the Chantry, because I like to imagine 
you're sitting there on another such day as this when you 
read it, with another Spring coming along, at last, in the 
loveliest country in ail England. 

i A member ofthe School House at Shrewsbury from September 
9xo to July 915. 
2 White's father had died on February zT. 



E. H. L.S. April 96 

To J. O. WHITFIELD. B.E.F. 
.dpril 3, J9 I6" 
Thc trenches were long and frightfully boring to patrol, 
owing to mud and ShOW and frost and considerable exhaus- 
tion--seems icredible now, for to-dalt it has been boili»g-- 
and in the long, lonely trudgcs I might have been observed 
mooning along by myself and stopping now and then to 
gct a star or two right, and then humming" 
Far in a western brookland 
That bred me long ago 
The poplars stand and tremble 
By pools I used to know... 
and feeling very happy at that business, I would plunge 
along to the next sentry group. 

To C. R. CtmMoRE. B.E.F. 
.eqpril 8, 1916. z.3o a.m. 
I bave this moment seen thc news ' in the 2v/. Post of April 
çth, which I opened b}, chance after coming off duty ; and 
before 1 turn in for an hour or so, 1 just send a line to say 
how very, very sorry I ara. I suppose few people' got going" 
quicker than old Mike in what was after all quite a new 
job, and one may well ask who ever ruade a better show in 
less time. 
I won't write a long rigmarole, as I don't expect you 
could bear to be inflicted with one just now. But I can't 
help adding I feel it is al1 rather splendid. That may be a 
bit absurd, but I do feel it. I suppose it is rather a selfish 
view of tbings, but I confess the second idea which came 
into my head was,  There ; you see again how the thing can 
be done '. 
x Lieut. M. M. Cudmore was killed in April. 



178 

E. H. L.S. April 96 

And yet, all this infernal philosophy may be very fine, 
but the fact does remain ; and it is hot easy to console 
oneself when one remembers old times» and how he is the 
first of a very priceless old crowd to go. Still, he didn't 
and (after all !) doesn't care, and I'm not sure I wasn't right 
after ail in feeling, not only unhappy, but also grateful for 
his lead to the dear little sportsman--one of the very best 
that you or I ever knew, or ever shall know! 
Good-bye, old man, and Good luck. 

To ms MOTHER. B.E.F. 
.,4pril [, 1916. 
The sun is shining  it is just after ' stand down' in the 
morning, when both sides are very happy, in view of probable 
breakfast partly, and also ofthe great fact that it is broad day 
and the night is over--that means a lot more than it does at 
home. Every one is pleased, firing is very slight at present, 
and there is not a sound except from crowds oflarks, singing 
some great tale about the Spring as though there never had 
been one before (and there never was one more desired, I 
know), in strict and splendid neutrality over No Man's 
Land. 

To I-IlS MOTHER. B.E.F. 
tpril 9, 916" 
Pli send the promised description now ; I arranged for it 
by taking a stroll from Coy. H.Q<_. to one end of the line 
yesterday, pencil in hand, during a quiet quarter of an bout, 
and just jotting down things seen on the way on the back 
of an envelope. Here it is. 
Starting from out dug-out, which is a verydif[erent concern 
from anything up yonder ', being many feet underground, 
and approached by a flight of a dozen or more steps, 



E. H. L.S. April 1916 179 
beautifully boarded in and supported by thick tree trunks, 
I got into the trench leading to the communication trench 
that goes to front lines, several score yards up. (The dug- 
out itself I will describe in another edition.) I had to take 
the signallers' dug-out on the way, and between here and 
there I passed various very typical odds and ends--plies of 
brushes, old haversacks, box of rockets for signalling in 
case of emergency, old water-bottle, a few jam tins (left 
by previous occupants--we are being rather good about keep- 
ing the place tidy, but I wouldn't swear we nez'er leave tins 
about !), old pack, and finally the signallers' dug-out itself-- 
a quite good concern, though rather crammed, as being 
a big one it bas to hold the C.S.M. (Company Sergeant- 
Major), officers' servants, and four orderlies, as xvell as the 
signallers. Getting rid ofmy message there for the benefit 
of an old Salopian, who has just corne out to at:other Com- 
pany (an excellent fact this ; curiously it is tle first time 
l've had one in the saine Battalion with me)» I was just 
leaving them wl:en suddenly I sa:v the trench cat ; ve often 
bave them here, but, curiously enough, none of the inmates 
of that dug-out knew she was there, though she sat on top 
oftheir ' louse'. They're rather a bore really, because tley 
walk about the parapet in the front line» and shew where 
the posts are by stopping to talk to the mea in full view of 
the Hun. But I hadn't time to wait to see if she would 
corne down. 

To HIS I%IOTHER. 
wqpril I0, 1916. 
It is very wonderful, isn't it ? To think that I am again 
within a few days of seeing you all ! 
It is getting on for « stand to ' rime, though I mustn't be 
rash enough to indicate the exact hour at which that hot 
N  



8o E.H.L.S. April 1916 
unthrilling event is due. After that I shall be on duty for 
three to four hours during the night» ending at about I.o ; 
and as ' stand to ' next day is early in the extreme, I shan't 
get ver}, much sleep. I ought really to be' clown toit" 
now» but then you mustn't expect too much ; when did any 
ordinary child go to sleep on being told he was going to 
bave a holiday ? So though I haven't had much sleep» and 
shall perhaps be strafed by my new friend» the O.C. C Coy.» 
for hot taking better care of myself» I can't help just sitting 
and scrawling away» hot to any particular point» but just to 
shew I ara rather pleased with things just at the moment ! 
Vell» as I said» itis very wondefful» and I ara in good 
form» as you can imagine. 
To HS AUNT. B.E.F. 
.4Tril I I» 96. 
Belote you get this you will probably bave been well 
beaten at Bézique» so I just send it beforehand» to console 
you by shewing you're not forgotten out here. But if my 
journey takes too long--and certainly I seem to be going 
to have a much longer job getting home than before--then 
you will no doubt have everything ready» pleas% for your 
defeat : cards counted» and markers at Zero» especially the 
red one» for that is the one you prefer. If» on the other 
hand, I get home first, I will make all arrangements for 
the first morning session. 
To HIS Morl. B.E.F. 
2el?ril I5, 96. 
We arrived at the Cathedral City  at noon and round 
to out great joy that tke train did not go till late afternoon. 
So we went and saw the Cathe.'Aral» and as you have 
gathered I lost my heart to it altogethcr. 
 Amiens. 



E. H. L.S. April I9I 181 
We used to be very easily satisfied in Belgium with the 
churches there, which, though hot great to behold at close 
quarters eing largely ruade of brick instead of stone» yet 
bave a pleasant way of rising out of the trees and serving 
as the only landrnarks on the plain. So when I really 
saw sornething good you can imagine my huge delight. 
There was an additional excitement because I was able 
to buy Ruskin's pamphlet on it, extracted frorn the book 
and sold at a franc in the shops. This was glorious 
reading, mainly because he is so tremendously excited 
about itu, Gothic pure, unsurpassable and unaccusable'- 
 The Stars in their courses built it and the nations'... 
and so on. I dare say I ought to have been more excited 
over the choir-stalls' carving, according to hirn, but I confess 
1 loved other parts rnuch more. 

To J. O. WHZrFIV.L3. .,Xlpril Xg, 916. 
« Aetas parenturn peior avis tulit 
nos nequiores, mox daturos 
progeniem vitiosiorem.' 
'Nos t-ères étaient plus rnéchants que nos aïeux; nous 
sommes plus corrompus que n'étaient nos pères; et biext6t 
nous laisserons des enfants encore plus vicieux que nous." 
Is it hot too priceless, this long tirade ? And better, a 
gem from ' Fons Bandusiae' : 
' Et venerern et proelia destinat.' 
' Il se prepare aux cornbats et à multiplier le troupeau 
le pétulant animal' (' lascivi suboles gregis '). 
It cornes from a translated Anthology (x 75"-), lying about 
in rny billet in the town of , the home of a prosierous 
and literary merchant in better days. it was necessary to 
cornmunicate with you at once. 



82 E.H.L.S. April 
To MRs. CasE. B.E.F. 
Thursday, wtpril 2o, 1916. 
Thank you very much indeed. Your delightful parcel 
has just corne in ; like the last, it contained specimens of 
everything a soldier likes ! 
l've rather a good tale for you to-day. A month ag% 
when we came into this town, I secured, with the Town 
Major's approval» a very fine bouse for out officers' billet. Ve 
were just taking over»when in came an agitated FrenchPriest» 
who ruade a long and moving speech to the efèct that it 
belonged tothe Dpute--an importantperson»of course» and 
also an ocer in the Fench army : he had several brother» in 
the service» and generally had great claires to consideration» 
and (in short) would we be so very good as hot to insist on our 
right to occupy his bouse ? The clergyman had been asked to 
plead with troops coming in,apparently, and as the French had 
agreed» I thought I could hOt (in the interest of the Entent% 
as well as from natural sympathy) very well do otherwise than 
clear out. 8o we took another hous% and now» after some 
more trips to the trenches, we have returned, again not to 
his house .... This afternoon tbe Député's bous% hOt many 
yards up the street from where I was sitting was heavily 
crumped and we were hot there! Poetic justice» is it not ? 
To HIs MOTHER. B.E.F. 
Tl:ursday, lpril zo» 916. 
As you know, I'm O.C. again so l've hOt had to wait long. 
Since then l've been, or thought myself, fearfully busy 
trying to keep things going. Qite honestly I ara sorry 
he* went so soon, for naturally I don't pretend to the saine 
experience or capacity as his. Of course, as I wrote to him» 
one does and ought to feel that it is a good gara% being a 
Company Commander; but I do think the Company 
 Capt. Barclay. 



E. H. L.S. May I916 

would have benefited by some more of him, and so should 
I. However» one must just try to carryon. The secret 
of the whole thing» as he tan it, was not merely being busy 
himself» but being able to act as a sort of centre of activity 
and make everything more round him. In fact, I believe 
many very fine commanders bave been successful by doing 
little themselves and, as it were» sitting in a kind of spider's 
web and controlling from inside. At present this is a very 
tempting picture, but I don't know nearly enough yet to 
be able to indulge in such methods ; but one does learn the 
unimportance ofone's own work and inspections and orders, 
etc., compared with the value of being able to make all the 
other subordinate officials run their own provinces for all 
they're worth. 

To M. G. WHITE. B.].F. 
lay 4, 1916. 
Ref. : ' aIanteau."  
Yes» Man ; though if you'd seen out trenches a fortnight 
ago» you'ld have guessed that ' the Mother of Months ' had 
been at it again 
Hlling the shadows and i»dyplaces (sic) 
With lisp of leaves and ripple of tain. 
But I ara not being very good. Less of it. Man» Shrews- 
bury ; and I ara going there. I start to-day for England» 
4th May» and Rupert Brooke would like the lilac outside 
my window. Ah ! yes» Man ; it is nearly a year now : and 
I think of the hollow on the plain, where I was sorry he had 
gone and lay» hOt altogether unlike Bello G when (if you 
remember) musing on the Nature of Belief. 2 
* M. G. W. had quoted in a letter to him 
« Le temps a laissé son manteau'. 
= At Undervelier» in The Patl to Pme. 



84 E.H.L.S. May 

To C. A. ALINGTONo T]oe Berners Hotel--London. 
drlay 5, 9 x6" 
It is not for the boys' sake tat I ara glad the thing is out, 
but because I do quite honestly believe that the handful 
of people who will read ' V. 3' will enjoy it : it seems like 
a quite definite opening of a new kind of art gallery and hot 
that loathsome thing, an educational experiment. And if 
a few peop]e like to wander through it for half an hour or 
so, then to the devil with the angling, and the glory, and 
the bait. 

To HrS MOTHER. Royal Pa.villon Hotel--Folkestone. 
drlay x3, x96. 
You must imagine me sitting in the train, trying to look 
as if I were used toit and ready to leave you all and home 
and dear old England any or every day ata franc a time. 
And if you had seen the leave-train go, you would bave seen 
many hundreds ofmen trying to do exactly the saine thing, 
' which is a thing no one ever succeeded in doing, and in 
all probability never will '. 
Ah well, but we mustn't talk like this. Now, you know, 
there's nothing I need say. I tried to say what I felt when 
I first came out, and, thank God, I can just leave it at that 
still. 
And the other bit ofphilosophy for us both is the marrer 
of seeing the thing in short stages. This, of course, is 
much easier for me, for I can see the stages more clearly. 
But I bave known what it means (like eerybody out here, it's 
forced on one) to be absolutely free from any anxiety on 
the strength of the prospect of a twenty-four hours' rest in 
third-line trenches, coming out of others, in the salient : 
and if I'd said ' Yes, but in twenty-four more l'll be there 
again', l'Id bave been a fool and miserable. 



E. H. L.S. May  

Ail ofwhich may sound very fine (it is tremendously true, 
an),way), but I'm here and you're hot, and--but we mayn't 
talk like that, ma), we ? Never mind, all things corne to an 
end» as the Psa]mist said ; even the War : and as you know, 
I believe it will be over about x½ ),ears before the pessimi_ts 
expect it. And as I said belote, I'm glad to be in it, and 
so are you ail ; so we're all glad together ! 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Royal Pa,vilion Hotel-- 
Folkestone. 
lay I, I916. 
That* was very good indeed, though dcplorably short. 
• I hope to see the Man before very long, but in the ordinary 
course ofevents it will be a fortnight before I get to the billet. 
Already l've begun to look forward to that rime ; for tb.e 
country will, if the weather behaves as it did when I left it, 
be lovely, and the Man should be within reach. 
That is a very good place you are at, Man, and they are 
good men that lire there. 

To M. G. WHITE. Boulogne (returni»gfi'om leave). 
_,lay 13, I96. 
Those men are good, and they live in a good place. I 
think they are happ),, too, and you will be glad to hear that. 
Also, Man, one discovers that England is hOt as other 
countries are. And» in fact, it difCs in so many small 
ways, that the real difference is hot easy to seize. But 
perhaps I thought more than anything of the manner in 
which they arrange their fields there. And I thought so 
much ofthis Jittle matter, as I traveIled across them» that I 
think you might do worse than agree or otherwise with 
what I said to myself in the train: and it went somehow 
like this. 
i His visit to Shrewsbury on leave. 



186 E.H.L.S. May 1916 
 Out there ', I said, « the fields lie hedgeless, naked, invit- 
ing manœuvre. And coming from the deep, interminable 
trenches of the south, I am hot sure I ask anything better. 
Certainly I have had glorious days there ; and yet, perhaps 
nevcr till I came back a few days ago did I know what it 
really was to worship the secluded valleys and the quiet 
fences of home. But I am at home now,' I continued,  and 
my whole soul goes out to clustered counties where beneath 
the mother-grey ofa summer haze, shoulder to shoulder and 
safe from the remembered storm, the fields of England lie 
close." 
There are other differences also, but this will do to go on 
with. This is a ver), important marrer, and I will thank 
you for further enlightenment on essential differences. 
Meanwhile  V.B' is out, though you were bad and my 
copy n6ver came, and I had to be given one by C. A. A. 
 King Alexander ' (or  Leaves ' rather) is a thing any poet 
might offer years of his lire to have written. It is quite 
too amazing. The author of the good old  L. House'x is 
apparently progressing, though he looked naturally weal¢. 
/Xlan, I don't want the War to stop one bit noev ; but 
you go to Shrewsbury and see if you can feel that tlvere. 
Oh Man, that is a place .... 

To HS FATHER. B.E.F. 
2la, 1916. 
1 see l've been promoted Temp. Capt. whilst command- 
ing a Company- ail I felt in England was a certain indig- 
nation at hot being one ; ail I feel now is a pretty solid 
sense of dejection at being so appallingly unfit for the job. 
x A. A. Blakeway, the author of a poem in « V. B ', called c The 
Lighthouse'. He was ill at this time, and Southwell had been to 
see him. 



E.H.L.S. May 96 
Well, well, you naay tell Muna she rnay call me Captain ifshe 
likes ; but really I ana not feeling particu]ar]y good about it. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. 9tb R.B. 
.ltlay 6, 9X6. 
I have been hoping to get this/etter sent ages ago, but, 
as you know, I waited fil] I could get in touch with Pitcairn 
Jones' Cornpany Commander, billeted a long way of['; and 
just atier doing so, I ara back in the trencles again for one 
week in. Merewether (that is the O.C. D Cornpany--he 
sa»ed nay life once) was not there whcn it al/happened, but 
was able to tell nae a good dcal. Pitcairn Jones was asleep 
in lais dug-out with another ot:ficer--it was in the rnorning 
--when a shell burst in the doorway» wounding thena both  
but the other oflïcer only got rather peppered with a lot of 
litt/e fragrnents, but poor Pitcairn Jones had the full force 
ofthe shell. He ",vas very badly hit in the legs, and sutTered, 
I ana afi'aid, very nauch while they were getting hina up and 
out of his dug-out and afterwards. Yet he seenas, like all 
these wonderful people, to have been quite naarvellous over 
it all. At least, I don't suppose it is so wonderful really, 
considering where he carne frona : but sonaehow I ana apt to 
feel naore and not less surprise as tinae goes on and proof 
upon proof cornes along of what good Sa/opians really are ; 
sonaehow one could understand the pioneers behaving so 
well ; but again and again the sanae old magnificence shews 
itse/f, and the ball is kept rolling with just the sanae old 
speed--and all this just when one is beginning perhaps to 
realise what a terrible .sorry kind of worrn one is, and to 
feel that the ropes are being worn a bit thin all round, and 
that Endurance herselfis getting sick of the war.--But all 
this rigmarole proves nothing except one proposition in 
itself--sec four lines above. 



88 E.H.L.S. lIay 96 
I needn't say how much I felt his going--it was the first 
news which the Qarter-master gave me on my return from 
leave ; I gather he died about two or three days later in 
hospital perhaps the very day I looked out of the train to 
see Shrewsbury getting nearer and thougilt how he would 
have liked to be with me. He was the only Salopian I bave 
been with and I had been greatly excited at meeting him. 
Ah yei, those are wonderful people. 
To H. E. E. HowsoN. ¢oy. H.,.--B.E.F. 
lay 30-3 i, I96. 
This is only a short passage on my signallers, who are 
great dears» though they regard me as a pencil thiefof the 
deepest dye. (N.B. This is perfectly true.) 
At the present moment they are in huge delight over 
Pip' ; it seems one has been reading it ( Not Pip Emma ' 
by any chance ?' said one with a taste for the obvious)» and 
ke is giving them a graphic account of the Love-match on 
the links at the end. 
Certainly the present aspect of the "Var doesn't worry 
them much ; they live through a door in my large H.., in 
room  5 feet underground in terrible warmth and close- 
ness with an orderly or tw% and the telephone to "amuse 
them when things are dull. 
It is very little that I overhear as a matter offact because 
have much too much to do ; and also they are probably 
well aware they ca** be overheard ifthey talk too loud ; and 
thus it is that only fiagments reach me. 
 i._ o "clode : all', 'well," calls out one, as I write. Yes. 1 
hope it is. My communication trench is ca!led Hope 
Street', by the way" surely tLe censor will not delete that 
comforting little fact. 
 As  P' and  M" are known in the Signalling Service. 



E. H. L.S. May i916 89 
To return to the « signais'; as we've been a bit quieter 
to-day--(stop that foolishness  what is the good of machine- 
gunning my parapet I  feet overhead ? Doesn't he know I 
always keep awake at night, even when I ara in ?}--itis so 
far true to say that  All's well': yet one never knows. 
(What is this talk about a  Kim6na', bellowed out from 
next door ?  [t's a lady's dressing-gown, isn't it ? ' Answer, 
and all the test of the talk, inaudible.) Nothing much 
doing : one of my oftïcers (Elliott) has just corne ot" patrol 
duty in the froat trenches--I shall be there myself at t 
and while he's s, tretching his limbs and explaining about the 
M.G. in No Man's Land, I can still find rime to write and 
to listen to the highly irregular (if we were in billets) 
humming of my H.O<_. sentries overhead and outside and, 
in fact to think of many things, 8hrewsbury for instance .... 
Oh Man, Man, shall I throw my pencil away and bury my 
poor bewildered head in my arms ? It came all so suddenly, 
and I have had, between ourselves a pretty bad week and 
I thought of Shrewsbury and nearly began to weep: never, 
I think, did I feel quite so much longing 
as Paris said, or nearly so. 
Ah well, it "s all right really: we don't reall do these 
melodramatic stunts, you know ; in fact, I don't offen let 
myself think of them. Besides, please God, we're to be 
relieved to-morrow, and by the rime we get to billets 
(they're within easy call of the Hun if they a»t to ring us 
up, but they don't shell them or hardly ever)--by that rime, 
Man, it will be JvE. And so the Man shall have a blade 
of ' glancing grasses' ' in a half-sheet o£ note-paper, with 
my blessing. (S»me people might say this point of view 
• Seepage 4 6 . 



rgo E.H.L.S. June I96 
varied : I date say my ' listening post' could do with6ut the 
said grasses in the dewmthough they didn't look very 
unhappy just now I must say: after all, the Hun is a cad 
by day, but during these short nights he seldom strafes 
seriously--for good reasons--except when he's doing, or 
we're doing a raid or something beastly» which it must be 
confessed happens pretty often it would seem though not 
here up to date.) 
oO 
Call no man happy,' or whatever it is. It seems 
almost too strangely ill-ted to be possible; but would 
you believe that since writng the ave we bave had the 
heaviest bombardment I bave yet experienced ! 
The trenches are messy this morning and the wire is 
tired-looking (I've just been messing about in it in the mist; 
only it liRed unlucMly) and there is work ahead belote we 
get out to-nightperhaps more strafing  I don't know. 
To Hs MOTHER. B.E.F. 
e , I916. 
This rime' everydy is again so kind and sympathetic 
that it becomes almost a joke. It will be one of the things 
that the bulletin from Sir D. Haig ought to report daily, 
so that everybody may know where we are. ' Capt. S. took 
over the command of C Coy. 9.z.6." 'Lt. Southwell 
handed over. o.z.6.' 'Capt. S. tookover again to-day. 
I i.z. i.' ¢ Lt. Southwell handed over again.  z.oE. I.'  Mr. 
Southwell retired to civilian lire in disgust. I3..6.' And 
so on. But, as a matter of fact, it is not as bad as that, 
and it is perfectly true that my first thought was one of 
mixed regret and amusement. 
I He wrote this on handing over his Company again to a senior 
ocer. 



E. H. L.S. June ,9,6 

To HIS SISTER. B.E.F. 
tme 6, I916. 
I and Garton (my new Captain) rode over together to this 
village» which is a very pretty one indeed, some rive toiles 
right back, and peaceful to a degree. The object was that 
we should be shewn some model trenches dug by the people 
undergoing training back there ; and I must say they were 
pretty good. Merewether was very amusing over them. 
He imagined a glorious interview with the R.E. Instructor» 
wherein he should say,  Yes, Sir ; very nice trenches, very 
nice indeed. Now ifI may venture to ask, they would be 
dug 6y night, of course, as ours have to be in the line ?" 
çVell, not exactly," the R.E. would say; in fact they 
would be dug by day, so that every one could see.'  Under 
tire, Sir, of course ?'  Well, I wouldn't quite say that.' 
 Great diNculties» no doubt, through lack of engineering 
materials and skill?" Well, no; we arrange all that." 
And so on and so on, but of course what really happened 
was that none ofthe catechisms were uttered and every one 
admiredin silence And, as I say, they certainly were 
good, and contained several very valuable hints, which I 
hoped we managed to carry away with us. 
And after it was over» we sent our horses away, and 
walked into the village and had tea» and waiked back in the 
evening talking about Eton and Magdalen and old times 
generally. 

To HIS FATHER. R sector-Coy. H., 
 tune 9, 1916- 1.3o a.m. 
Belote I go any farther, l'd better let loose at once the 
story of the Captain of the --th whom we relieved an hour 



I92 E.H.L.S. une 96 
or two back. It professes to explain why the superstitious 
believe the War will end on June 17- 
It began with an officer on a visit to Cox's.  You're 
going to the Front are you ?" said the clerk ;  you'll return 
wounded in three weeks.' This came off and the ottîcer's 
next visit was paid on going out again. ' You'll be wounded 
again in a month" was the prophccy ;  also the War will be 
over by June 177 but I shan't live to sec it." The officer 
was wounded, so runs tb.e tale and the clerk is dead... 
Very nice and encouraging and so we must wait and sec. 
There seems to be no end oi r a lot of peace talk about just 
now but that may too probably be only their fun! 

To HI$ MOTHER. iJrth Die;isional 8chool of Instruction. 
une I 1916. 
These schools are excellent things ; and it ought to do 
you good 1 think to know that the Army is really using its 
brains far more than it used to do, in the instruction of its 
more ignorant members. I suppose I oughtn't to say too 
much about numbers of schools even if I have beyond the 
vaguest guess how many there are. But it is at least fait 
to say that it is most improbable that in a few more weeks 
(or say months at most) there will be any officers at all 
who haven't been sent away to s0me course or other out 
here under people with the very latest tips from the Front. 
Ifwe can be trusted to reproduce in our men (and this is 
the hard part really perhaps even harder for many people 
than for me ; for with ail my military stupidity, I think if 
any one succeeds in teaching me anything I can make some 
sort of show at teachiaag others)if» as I say we can teach 
them hall what they arc ail trying thcir hardest to teach us, 
we really shall be getting on. 



E. H. L. S. 
The New House, Shrewsbury 
Fcbruary, It}l 5 



E. H. L.S. June x96 

To R. A. Kox. 
i+th Divisional School of I»structtonNB.E.F. 
une 8» 96. 
K. and Latin Prose.* Yes, it is very striking. Curiously 
enough, we had a terrific education argument the very night 
before your letter came. [I suppose I'd better explain that 
I'm here (see heading), having again handed over the Com- 
pany to H. W. Garton» who was in this Battalion a long 
time ago ; and being now free to go on  courses' again, 
they've selected me: hot too bad ; one learns a terrific 
amount, or I think one does» and gets a complete change 
from the trenches.] It started between a certain Captain 
of R.E. (D.S.O. and all that» a terribly efficient man who 
teaches us what you wouldn't believe a possible amount of 
t:acts about field works) and myself, following the discovery 
that the Colonel (one Swainson» D.S.O., of the Cornwalls) 
was an old Salopian. We all three got at it hard: the 
C.O. and I against the Captain and a Lieutenant ofthe 
Cyclists, late teacher in a London Polytechnic School. 
These were all for a turn-out of classics altogether» and it 
was very difficult going. Why is it that the only thing 
schoolmasters can't do is to defend themselves ? At least 
I always feel terribly open to attack on these occasions. I 
rested most of my claire for the average boy (does he exist, 
by the way ? Tke Times thought he did for months, one 
year» I remember) on what old Bradley calls exactness of 
thought  and while not stressing the value of classics for 
the better peopl% I thought it best to urge Latin Prose as 
the most urgent thing. \Vhat these people al'ways say 
« Why not do French and German in exactly the same 
 This refers to Lord Kitchener's remark that Latin Prose had 
taught him more than anything else. See page i6z. 
 O 



194 E.H.L.S. June 1916 
then? Then you bave your exactness and also a modern 
Ianguage when you've done' : to which the only answer I 
know is that the languages don't admit of it, and that's ail 
about it. I ara quite sure that is so. Of course the R.E. 
man (who is really, as I bave said, terribly efficient) only 
said» in reply to your quotation from K., that be would bave 
done wcll on any scheme, and it was no proof. 
Oh, and he said that, belote joining the Army and 
knowing as much as any man living about gabions (it's not 
e'ery one who can put up a better one than mine, by the way ; 
but let that pass) and cubic £eet and expanded ruerai hurdles, 
hL; onc ambition was to be an artlst. It is a strange world. 
He is very, very capable : he is indeed. 
It is too miserable about Woodroffe. Z It was owing to 
him, as much as any one, that I joined the R.B. Every 
one of course says,  What a wondcrful family ', and this is 
perfectly true: but his death was not wonderful at all ; it 
was just the most miserable piece of bad luck for his Regi- 
ment, and that sort of nonsense is no consolation at ail for 
his loss. It does remain true that those three great men 
made a name in the R.B. which is famous in every one of 
its Battalions. 

To ms SISTERo I+th Div. S. off L--B.E.F. 
tune zo, 1916. 
At last the weather seems to have turned over a new leaf; 
for this evening, as I write, it is beautiful. 
The country is pure Wiltshire. Fisherton almost stares 
at me from the little village on the hill opposite, over the 
valley, with the spire of the church standing out of the 
I Captain Leslie Woodroff% M.C. Died ofwounds on June 
lO. He was an Assistant Master at Shrewsbm-y from September 
9o9 to December I9I 4. 



E. H. L.S. June  9 6 

19»- 

trees above the chalk : it is whcre  a certain Big man ' lives 
(not a very vcry, you understand ; but a Big man, ail thc 
saine). And the weathcr's pure Junc : so that is all right. 

T( C. A. ALt¢;TOI',r. ,4th Divisional School of Instruction. 
B.E.'. 
tole ZO I916. 
It is indeed sad ncws about L.W. He was of course, 
as you say, a man with a vast numbcr of fi-iendsone 
meets them constantly and uncxpcctcdly from Boulogne 
to  out here, in many Battalions. He gave me vcry 
valuable help in scveral ways both bcforc and affcr joining, 
and (quffe apart from the çact that he is undoubtcdly one 
of a trio than whkh none are better known throughout 
the Regiment shce the War) I have always felt under rather 
a special debt to him. Can you hOt imagine how gloriously 
placid he would be in a big mbardment ? We were all 
distresscd at the news here, in this vcry composite crowd 
(one ocer per Battalion throughout the Division); and 
what his Ioss will be to the Regiment I cannot imagine. 
And to Shrewsbury no lcss I fear. Somehow it seems 
always the best that are the first to go» even if only by a 
miserable stroke of luck such .as this. 
This short line is ail I bave rime for now as I must get 
on parade: but I thought I would just send a line of 
sympathy with you on Iosing onc of thc best men who ever 
put on a gown. 

To HIS MOTHER. I4th Div. S. of I.B.E.F. 
une 24, 1916. 
The  village of the old ladies" back in February, where 
we arrived after a long journey, and got right into the most 
romantic and touching scene I bave struck in thc War (you 
O x 



9 6 E.H.L.S. June 
remember « Remember '7 ° ' x)» would» I think» run this close. 
But I saw it in snow andcomparisons under these conditions 
are hot easy. But here it is indeed lovely. I think the 
wood or small copse rather» within bSeo yards of which I 
sit is the loveliest of its kind I know ; you would love 
I know. A real picture from £airy land--like so 
pictures in war time, do yoll know; many» I say advisedly 
(if only because the few are so very unlike); and not only 
out of the trenches either nor (neccssarily) during the 
quietest rimes. It all depcnds on one's state of mind 1 
suppose» at the rime. Certainly my gloomiest moments have 
been in billets ; which docsn't mean that during a strafe 
of any kind one always bas a jolly rime (because tat is only 
silly !)7 but that»whatever it may be» it iæ not usually a tedious 
or depressing affai G but something less passive» as it wer% 
in the way of feelings ! This },ou can well believe. 
No news. I ara afraid this is a silly lctter» all abotlt 
myself ! 

To HIS SISTER. B.E.F. 
eune z6 96. 
Back to the Army again, serjeant, 
Back to the Army again» 
as Kipling says. Which is to say that I ara in the trenches, 
and also in a house (which might puzzle you a bit» only 
don't forget the cellar) very much as before as regards 
situation. The first floor is hot, and the roof is one of the 
never-was-es by all appearances, and the ground. And 
oh, I saw the Sussex at Boulogne, with ail ber bones stove 
in, without a trace of emotion. I have seen too many ruins 
betbre now in this gaine, and one is very like another ; a 
bouse that is no house has too often been an everyday 
* Sec page 7o. 



E. H. L.S. June 96 gz 
sight. And so, when I came ber% I round this billet a 
shade more demolished than anything I thought possible, 
the whole air rather more triste and sinister; but that 
was all. I could stand all that» and even the piano (shade 
of Ivor Atkins !) shattered to bits» and the keys choked with 
brick-dust ; but one thing was just a fraction too much, 
and when I saw it I confess I caught my breath for a 
moment ; it was a child's marble» chipped and past all 
hope of rolling .... 
They are quaint places, these trenches, that wander in 
and out ofhouses, and in a way rather picturesque. Summer 
fights its way in even here, and you may find your face 
brushed with a yellow cornflower, sticking out of the side 
of a field as you plod along through the trench, and re- 
member better days. 

To HlS FATHER. B.E.F. 
une "-9, 19  6. 
There bas been a good deal of" what is known to journal- 
ists as  activity ", and one begins after a bit to realise that 
one would not mind being out for a day or two ! A Padre 
of the Brigade gave me a Prayer-Book some weeks back; 
this morning's psalms are, to say the least, hot uncomforting. 
See for instance cxxxix. 2.. * I wonder if it is re'lised how 
hard it is to stick to what one knows one does believe, just 
when one most should ! Do not forget this, please. 

'I'0 HIS FATHER. B.E.F. 
June 3o, I96. 
Aha ! But you did hot enclose the cutting about  Kossovo 
Day '. I never do myself, of course, and it is so nice to see 
• "Thou art about rny parh, and about rny bed : and spiest out 
all m l, ways." 



191] E.H.L.S. July 1916 
other people do forger occasionally, l'ld like o see it, 
thougb» for I'm afraid I'm distinctly vague. A this Foint 
a brother oflïcer chips in :  Oh },es» it's a Serbian thing» 
1 3 8 9 (was he right ?)7 wben...' and then a lot of names ; 
isn't he wonderful ? 
I see from the papers there is a great deal of activity 
about. I'm hOt betraying lny secrets» herefore when ! say 
that the 01« bas been on the illCreas% though I must hot 
sa}, where most of it came from. 
Pease make it c!ear that I do hot want a, increase 
cbe vo«s of anxiety at all if possible. 
But if ever you remembered an}, one in your prayers in 
this world 1 would like it o be my ffiend l'hite, .... I 
know I do not ask in vain. 

To THE MENTHE NEW Hot/sE. B.E.F. 
Y«6' 3, 9 
Men» I date say you know ; but if hOt» I am in great 
anxiety about our Man ; though I can't say where he is or 
what he is doing.I had a letter froan White two days ag% 
by the way» mentioning the night before the Challenge 
Oars. • It was a short note» but very wonderful. 
Pray God all's well with our Man. 

To R. A. Kox. .E.F. 
uly 4, 1916" 
Huge delight in H. W. G.'s cellar (which he kindly 
allows me to share with him» and ever},body to fced in ; 
and a fine mess we makc of it) at seeing your handwriting ; 
but some indignation in the heart of the Company Com- 
mander at the omission ofhis name. I gave him your letter 
• A race between House Fours on the river at Shrewsbury. 
White had coached the winning Four in i9 4. See page "--56. 



E. H. L.S. july 1916 199 
to read (with the warning that there was hardly a page ho 
would understand),which consoled him more, probably,than 
a fictitious message from you. It was a lovely letter, 
so full of the New House from end to end that the events 
of the week, which bave at rimes hot been pleasant, disap- 
peared from my mind for hours. 
Astinol" of course is too Iovely : I hope you're keeping 
these poems for publication. And so was Newman's 
 Harbour'.2 There was a touch of the real best « V. B ', I 
thought, in one place, where he spcaks of the  thick soft 
sand, like sand from Heaven'. It is the sort of phrase 
which I feel quite typical of boys' imagination : dear me, 
that's very heavy. 
The Prlsouer of Zenda is good, again ; and so is Rupert. 
H. W. G. has them both here. 
Good-night, everybody. Pray God all's weI'l with our 
Man. Love. 

To R. A. KNox. B.E.F. 
)tuly 8, 916. 
H. W. G. did me a good turn last night by recalling 
some of the touch of romance that still hangs about the 
War. It is a dreadful thing, Ronnie, and there are few 
people for whom you ought more heartily to pray than 
those for whom it is a question whether the Romance of 
War is dying out. Thus, just as we went to bed last night, 
he said,  Listen ! That is always rather thrilling, the sound 
of men marching past your billet singing and whistling.' 
Good, that, because I ara afraid my own thought was less 

translation into Latin Elegiacs of an advertisement for 
Astinol ', published by R. A. K. in Tbt Salopian. 
poem written in form. 



OEoo E.H.L.S. july x 9 x 6 
interesting, especially as I knew what job they were finish- 
ing up; and I doubt whether I should have done more than 
murmur ' Carrying party returned ', and turn over to sleep. 
As it was, I sat up in bed and loudly praised God. 
Pray God all's well witb the Man, Ronnie. There are 
rumours of the Battalion rather disquieting. Please cable 
me the first news you gct, good or bad. Yet I hope and 
believe he may be sale yct. 



CHAPTER VII 

M. G. W. 

FEBRUARY to Jtr.Y 96 
WHrrE landcd at Le Havre on Fcbruary 9, and on thc 
 zth he was at a Base camp at Rouen, whcrc he had staycd 
in x9o 9. Hc joined thc st Battalion on the ,8th at 
Canaples, wherc for a month it was in reserv% to his 
disappointment. Three days latcr he visited Southwell, 
who was near by. 
At the beginning of March he had a chill, and on the 
+th hc hcard the news ofhis fathcr's dcath. He came back 
to England, though hot till after the funcral. While at 
Oxton he found that he could hot get rid of lais chill» and 
was forced to get extension ofleave, which lasted for nearly 
a month. He visited Shrewsbur, for the night of April 4, 
and then left once more for France. 
On the 8th he round his Battalion in the trenches at 
Hannescamps, and had his first introduction to trcnch lire. 
On May z his Company Commander went away for a time 
and he was left in charge. On the 3rd.the Battalion marched 
from Pommier through Halloy to 13eaumetz, for a period 
of training. A bad week fol/owed for White formwith 
characteristic self-criticism--he believcd that he was not 
being as competent as he might bave heen ; but he recovered 
confidence later. 
On Ma), I8 came the first news of thc coming attack, 



202 1V[. G. W. 

and on thc zznd thc Battalion movcdto Beaussart» fromwhich 
White went forward to reconnoitre the ground or direct 
working-parties. Captain Fraser returned on the 3 ist» and 
again took charge oi î the Company. The same work con- 
tinued ; Whitc was at Mail]y-Maillet onJune  . On the 
.znd they returncd to Beaussart for a test, and two days 
latcr the great bombardment began. On July I the Bat- 
talion went into action in front of Mailly-Maillet; WMte 
was hit in advance of his men; his servant, who had 
bllowed Mm in the attack, reached him, and asked if he 
was badly wounded. He said « I'm ail right; go on'. At 
that momcnt a shell burst near them. His servant remem- 
bers nothing more till the rime when he was in hospital. 
Though thcrc was doubt for a rime, it is now certain that 
White lost his lire in the explosion. 
These are letters written about him after his death :-- 

From an officer in his Battalion :-- 
 He is acutely missed throughout the Battalion» both as 
a friend and as an officer whose keenness and example 
make his loss a very grave one to the Regiment. 
' You will also be proud to hear that, two nights previous 
to the attack» he most gallantly conducted a party to 
search for a fcllow-officcr who had been caught in heavy 
machine-gun tire  the officer returned unhurt, but that does 
hOt render the act any less gallant." 
"From another fellow-officer, who, as a boy, had kaown him 
at Shrewsbury : 
I have never known such a real Christian. That was 
a fine letter  of his which West shewed me. Fancy Mal- 
cohn talking about being selfish. I doubt if he knew what 
selfishness meant. If he did, it was only the more fully to 
 His last letter fi'om France» page 357- 



M. G.W. o 

understand unselfishness. It was that and his utter sincerit¢ 
and genuineness which ruade him what he was. His ideal 
was always so high, and he was never faIling short of it. 
His ideas were just wonderful and in the six years that I 
have known him I have learnt more of what real religion 
means than anyhow else. He was never tired oftrying to 
put down all bitterness against the Germans and if he bas 
died he will bave done very much to justify in many people's 
eyes the idea_« which he started in lire." 

From a ffiend who was also an old Salopian :-- 
 One always felt that therc was about him some inde- 
finable quality» which he expressed perhaps most clearly in 
his music. \Vhen he was playing one of the more ethereal 
Bach fugues he seemed entirely in keeping with it and one 
realised that it was his natural mode of thought. And it 
was just this that seemed to give him an immense breadth 
of view for he lived in a region where small controversial 
things did hot seem to marrer. In everything that he talked 
or wrote about he expressed views which we instinctively 
knew were right and which were the conclusions we should 
have corne fo in our highest moments. Only he was always 
on a plane which we reached at too rare intervals. And yet 
he was hot in the least unsympatheti% for this height and 
breadth of view only mtde him the more able to compre- 
hend. 
 There sometimes appears to be a region» or state of 
thought» in which we are no longer troubled by questions 
of art and morality o ambition and honour» of personal 
adqictions and grievances. One felt that he never departed 
from this region but ruade one believe that fol" the rime one 
was his companion there. 
 I do hot think that any of lais fi'iends will ever forger 



2 o4 M.G.W. February x 9 x 6 
him, and one of them will always be entircly grateful that 
he was allowed to know such a Inan to whose inspiration 
he owes Inore than he can possibly say or realise.' 
Thesc arc thc last extracts from his writings :-- 

DIARY 

«llonday, Feb. 7- While on leave at Radlett, got a wire 
telling Inc to joill Expeditionary Force. This is very 
exciting. Rcturned to Sheerness in a hurry, packed, and 
got away again to London. 

Tuesda, Feb. 8. It was good to gct the departure over, 
though the excitement ofthe past forty-eight hours has been 
in a way good, and the goodness of fricnds is always such 
a proininent thing in crises of this kind ; thc wires from 
Graham and Arnold, and from Shrewsbury, and Edwards, 
and the coining of those people to see me off. l'In glad 
Father came, though I had often thought it would be better 
not to be seen oik[ It was great of him. 
Southainpton at 7.0. Innuinerable reportings and em- 
barkations, dark offices» jetties shining patches of water, 
railway lincs leading nowherc a great heartening dinner 
ait the S.W. Hotel.Everywhere kit and officers and a 
strange medlcy of the Iniraculous and the inevitable. Went 
on board the Havre boat at I.I, and gradually to sleep. 
The most wonderful day of In t, life. 

14"ednesday, Feb. 9" Boat started 7 a.m., and I went on 
deck at 8.o a.m. as we ran through Spithead with the sun 
rising behind a bank of sinoke and Inist which hid Ports- 
mouth and Hayling. Landed at Le Havre at  o'clock. 



M. G.W. February I916 2oç 
More reportings and eventual arrival at the Base Camp, 
where life has become more commonplace, and excitcment 
bas gone for a rime. Which Battalion will it be ? The 
znd seems probable from here, but hOt necessarily. 

Thursday, Feb. 10. Walkcd about ctmp ail morning. 
In the afternoen we all went down to Havre, and I shopped 
at the Ordnance Stores, dined at the Hôtel de Normandie, 
and got news by telephone there that I ara for the i st 
Battalion Depot at Rouen. Life has become dull herc, and 
l keep reminding myself that I ara on the way to the Front, 
that I ara in the saine countr), as the enemy, etc., etc. 

Fr]day, Fe/o I I. A rcpetition of yestcrday. More fat 
meals in Havre. Ordcrs to move to Rouen, +th Infantry 
Base Dcpot. 

Saturda, Feb. IZ. Rose at 4.30 and, standing upon my 
bed and wondering miserably how I should ever find and 
pack anything in the dark, I sang the Volga Boatman Song. 
The arrival of servants ver), late only made things more 
chaotic. After breakfast we set oit down to Harfleur 
Station, down long avenues of poplars which shuddered 
in the dark. Eventually got into a train and arrived at 
Rouen about , i o'clock, and went to report at the camp. 
Simpson left us to go straight up to the znd. It is good 
to see Rouen again. It fulfilled itself again according to 
my memory, more completely than I had expected. I went 
and looked again into the font at St. Ouen, and saw down 
in the water the reflection ofthe depths ofthe church ; and 
I smelt again the quais, and the street which leads up to, 
and frames at the other end, the lonely little church of 
St. Vincent. We lunched under the Grosse Horloge, and 
1 called at z 3 Avenue Mont Riboudet, but the Mords had 



206 M.G. 

removed. However, I went in and reminded myselfofthe 
dictées, and the dogs, and the discomforts which bind one 
more closely to a good rime past. 
In the evening we went to the Folies Bergères and saw 
a Revue and, what was better, had a fine picture of a 
French audience. For the lights suddenly went out, after 
the show had been going about twenty minutes, and for a 
rime the audience took possession of atMrs. It was either 
a Zeppelin alarm or the rchearsal of one. There was no 
sort ofpani% but a terrific hubbub ; shouts and suggestions 
came from the gallery, and the place was soon dimly lit by 
flickering candles, ticd to pillars or leaning dizzily over 
the edge of balconies. After about three-quarters of an 
bout, the band got candles, and played an overture to some 
light opera and 'God save the King'. Then the curtain 
went up, and the ' management" announced that they were 
going to continue the performance by candle-light. The 
leading lady appeared and stood over the footlights, arguing 
with the conductor and the audience as to the best positions 
for the candles ; and while she gesticulated and appeared 
to direct operations, various characters ofthe Revue appeared 
and dotted the front of the stage with candles, while the 
gallery shouted its approval and its advice---' Ça va tomber," 
etc., etc. Altogether an amazing scene. 

8unday, Feb. I. Discovered the Mords in a new and 
dclightful house terraced on the hill at the back of the town, 
with a wonderful look down on to the great churches. I was 
recognized by Isabellc, who opcned the door to me, and 
Madame gradually put the pieces of me together, like a 
kind of jig-saw in ber memory.. I stayed to tea. It was 
ail very good» this revisiting» and they were glad to see 
roc. I did hOt see Monsieur. But one rarcly did. The 



M. G.W. February 1916 2o7 
pcnsionnaires were an English Army Pay Officer, and 
three boys (French), one of them a diminutive violinist, 
very shy. I played on his diminutive violin the Allegro 
of the Leclair Sonata by request, Madame remembering it 
from 19o 9. 
A,londay, Feb. I+. On fatigue near the ship-yards down 
the Seine. Unhappy day, followed by a tempestuous night, 
when the men's tents blew down and the corrugated iron 
was blown about the huts, which rocked like ships. I 
wonder if I shall dislike the trenches much more than the 
base. 

l.Ved»esday, Fek. 16. Parade again. After being detailed 
by a smart Major on a horse, with rhin paper-manipulating 
fingers and a high voice, we are sent of to a lecture on 
sketching, in a shelter in the woods. Everything awfully 
efficient and terrifying till we get to the actual lecture, which 
I bave tried to write out as I remembered it. (The lecturer 
is a machine-gun officer and hOt a sketcher ; so the fault or 
the credit is the British Army's and hOt his.) 
Lecturer (voho dravols rather and i really a very amusing 
fellov:):«Have any of you got compasses? Only one 
compass among us ? That's serious. Well, l've got to 
make these few remarks about sketching, so I'd better get 
it offmy chest. Of course, myself, I think sketching's very 
important--relis you where you are, you know. You often 
have to relieve a trench and the other fllow's in such a 
deuce of a hurry to clear out, you don't really get a chance 
to find out anything from him, so a sketch is useful ifyou 
can get it.' 
(Interruption by smart Major, "who rides up and asks 
«what ,we're doing, and after having the very obvious defects 
of the shelter pointed out to him, rides off again.} Lecturer 



like rain now. 
think we'll open 
while I slip off 
doesn't go.) 

2o8 M.G.W. February 19 I6 
continues:  Well, what was the train of thought ? Got a 
match ? Thanks--awful, these French matches, aren't they ? 
I say» we can't do much without compasses» but as I was 
saying, it's a data" good thing» a sketch, and every oflïcer 
ought to be able to do one. Of course we can't get much 
done this morning» as we haven't any compasses.' (Refer- 
ring to Major's recent vis#) ¢ I say, ought one to get up 
when he cornes round like that ? 1 never know. Oh ] have 
you seen these maps they use out here ? l'll pass "em 
round. I suppose you all know about this A 2 3 c i business 
they use for rctbrence ?" (Explai»s it rather reluctantl),.) 
' Of course we really ought to go and make a sketch, but 
it's hot much good without compasses. Now» there's a 
good sketch' (passing it round) ;  got all the things in it ; 
sort of lets you know where things are, you know. The 
great point is to keep it ncat ; hot slobbered over with 
mud and rain, and a lot of words written all over it. 
They like it» if you can make a good sketch .... I 
I think we'd better go out and do some sketching without 
the compasses. We must do something. It looks rather 
I say, it is raining. Well, I almost 
the meeting to general discussion, 
and borrow some compasses." (He 

' I say, wouldn't some one say a few words about some- 
thing for a few minutes ? I mean, the morning goes much 
quicker that way. We've got to be here till i OE.o. Well 
then, do you mind if I talk about Machine Guns for a bit ? 
I'm interested in them. Has anybody done a pukka course 
in the Lewis gun ?' (Hands go up. Lecturer talks to me 
very OEuletl abo»t the Lewls gun.) 
Aleanwhile conversation bas kecome general and is something 
]ike this : 



M. G.W. February 1916 209 

l/'oices among the wtudience. 
' Is the Corps any good ?' 

' Well, there's that place 
in Oxford Street." 
' Oh ! the Savoy's hope- 
]ess.' 
' I say, what did out Adju- 
tant say about  ?' 
' Oh ! my Burberry keeps 
it out all right.' 

The Lecturer. 
' The Corps ? Well, they've 
slept in sheets for a year. 
That's a fact. You see their 
Sergt.-Major on the road, a 
mlle behind the line, dressed 
up to the nines. They've 
got four spanking Daimlers 
per Company. Well, all I 
can sa}, is «good luck to 
"em ", but they've done far 
less than data' all.' 
(Co»tinues aout the _Ma- 
chine (;un.) 

(Overcome ky matter of 
greater interest) : 
' Oh! Burberrys? Well 
lookat mine. This thingwets 
me all here. Won't some 
one tell us about mines ? fs 
there a miner here? Tell 
you a thing you bave to be 
careful of.' (Tells a story 
aout a mine ,whlch Me*w up--no apparent bearing on the 
matter in hand and contains very little advice as to what 
"vve ought to be careful of.) 
lss P 



2io M.G.W. February 
c Well, I think ifwe all take a walk round those trees and 
back, it'll be getting on for IZ o'clock.' 
(Finally e all go home at I I 
Dined at Rouen at the Restaurant de la Cathédrale. 
I wonder if Stevenson meant ail he said about c great 
churches being my favourite kind of mountain scenery'. 
For it is astonishingly true. Rouen Cathedral has that 
saine breath-holding effect upon me as a big mountain has, 
when one cornes suddenly upon it round a corner, and 
looks up at the pinnacles which look so small and are really 
so big ; the saints in their niches Iike gendarmes, the grey 
towers by the lower Iights of the town at night like hinted 
snow-fields. The Cathedral, from the left bank of the 
river, looks over its foot-hills ofthe quais and other buildings 
just as Tryfaen peeps out over the Gogof, something 
farther away but bigger and more mysterious. 
Thursday Fe#. 17. Orders to go up to the 1st R.B. I called 
on Madame Morel before leaving Rouen at 5.3o, when 
Robertson and I (Kirkland and Billington are to corne later) 
boarded our train, a long string of wagons and trucks and 
carriages, which bumped slowly along in the dark and 
finally spent the night in a siding at Abbeville. 
Friday, Fe#. I$. We are there now and I suppose 
we shall hear the guns in a few hours. It is difficult to 
realise all this. We took a cart from the inn, and joined 
our Regiment. R was good to find oneself among Riflemen, 
and to find Russell-Smith. Best of all, to find letters 
from Father, Mary Arnold, and C. A.A. One feels here 
in the presence of something quietly efficient. 
,çaturday, Fe#. 19. R.-S. says the French are more 
patriotic than the English. I wonder if, Empire-building ' 



M. G.W. April 96 
nations are ever really patriotic. Pçrhaps we bave expended 
our patriotism oa imperialism. Puck af Paak's Hill and 
the Sussex enthusiasm of Kipling bave always been a surprise 
to me. Moved to A' Company, where people received 
one with the same silent and detached air of saying, ' This 
isn't much of a pienic. Take a chair and share our bore- 
dom. Carry on." I heard the guns for the first time. 
Rumours of the Man's Battalion coming here. That scems 
too incredible. Got many letters. 
.Monday, Fe. _. Parades. C.O. came over. It is true 
about the Man, and I went over to a viilage z Km. away 
and fbund him. I was awfully disappointed hOt to take 
him more by surprise. An officer gave me away by tellilg 
him there was an officer of st R.B., a Shrewsbury Master, 
waiting to see him. The whole incident is much more 
amazing than I can realise--that 's the worst of it. 
Friday, Fe. 2 5. Stayed in bed all day till tea-time. 
Fortunate enough to see a doctor. It is a desperate 
business being ill now. I ara lucky to be in Reserve ; 
otherwise I ara feeling very wild about it al]. The people 
of my billet are good peopleu'des honnêtes gens' 
(Somerville z). I did not really understand that even here 
we are in Picardy, until the girl ofthe house said, ' Vous ne 
comprenez pas le Picard, m'sieur ?' 

Tuesaray, .,Xlpril 4. Went to Shrewsbury to lunch. It was 
First Day ; otherwise I would not bave gone, for after my 
visit last November I have always felt that I mustn't 
go again till I have faced things at the Front. There are 
man}, motives which have driven men to fight in this war ; 
the violation of Belgian neutrality, a very few ; more, the 
i Somervilte's Primer ofFrench Gretmmetr. 
P z 



2  z 1.I.G.W. April  9  6 
love of country ; soin% the hatred of militarism: and I 
think my motives are hot uncommon ; which af% the 
feeling that one's friends have been through this test 
and that I must, and a kJnd of personal challenge to oneself 
which is the strongest thing in my morality and leads 
so often to irrational results, which says  You dare hOt do 
this thing ; therefore you must '. 
llTed»esday» .,4pril . Left by the breakfast train, and 
Mary and Arnold and Ella saw me off. I met West in 
London and we saw Jerome in hospital after lunch. 
Reached Southampton at 6.30. 
_,4pril 7- I was set down at 11 p.m. by a motor lorry in a 
dark and unknown country. I walked to St. Amand and 
woke up the Transport ofl:icer, who found me a bed. On this 
walk 1 discovered the War. 
Aprll 8. After a delightful slack day, in the evening I rode 
up with the Transport to Battalion H.O<_. I wonder if those 
bored Transport men and that bored Transport oflïcer knew 
how excited I was. Or the orderly who led me along a 
deep, star-roofed communication trench» did he know that 
that walk thrilled me as little else has done ? 
_.4pril 8 9 and Io. I have been introduced to Wa G and at 
present I find him a sunshiny old devil by day and a star- 
spangled old wizard by night» attended by countless elfish 
little devils who sigh through the air when we stand to 
arms just belote daybreak, and noisy chattering fellows who 
always try to get in the last word and must all be talking 
at once, especially when one of them thinks that an 
aeroplane is flying low enough to be hit. 
It is hard to believ% in fine weather x zoo yards from 
the Bosches that all this chattering and banging is any- 
thing more than an uncouth gara% into which one has 



M. G.W. April 96 2r 3 

been drawn by curiosity. So strange are the emotions 
stirred by all the circumstance of this trenoea-lifc--the 
rough awakening after an hour or two of sleep» when one 
staggers out of a dug-out» chill and sleepy» to hear the 
monosyllabic rifles and the chattering machine guns» who 
bave» it seems» kept up their palaver during one's period 
of forgetfulnes. 

.,4ioril t7-zz. A week of rain and mud. 

Easter Day, April z 3. A really beautiful Easter Day. 
The chaplain came round to out trenches at 6.0 a.m.» to 
hold a Communion Service in a large dug-out. This is a 
good man and makes me realise w',:at good men Christians 
af% when they are Christians. There is a good ' influence ' 
from him» ofwhich o,ze is conscious at his first appearance. 
Not many men could cry out ' A Happy Easter to you'» 
with meaning and without any impediment of self-con- 
sciousness or spinality. It makes one rather sad about the 
sliglt shyness with which we returncd his greetings» the shy- 
ness oflaymen towards the parson. At 6.30 this wonder- 
fui west-wind day had begun» and I went to bed smoking 
a pipe and thinking of father and of many things. 

Monday, .,4pril z+» and Tuesday, .,4pril "-5- A glorious 
Spring day. ' Le temps a laissé son manteau'; there is a 
delicate green on the trees, and the swallows are returning 
to their village, ofwhich the other inhabitants bave left the 
ruins. It must have been a happy place at the Easter of I9I +. 
On a workhag party at night. 

Friday» .,Xlpril zS. Russell-Smith lent me E. F. Benson's 
new school story. E. F. B. and Ian Hay» etc.» represent 
a kind of breezy school in modern literatur% who have the 
ideas of the last generation and the smart phraseology of 



21+ ll. G.W. May 1916 
the present, gin antho]ogy of their works might be ruade 
by E. V. Lucas and caIIed  In Praise of Public School NIen'. 
Tuesday, 2tlay OE. gi shell burst on a traverse within twent)' 
yards of me. I was ver), frightened, and rather proud to 
have had one really at close quarters. Took over command 
of Company temporarily, as Fraser went to the girrny 
School. 
lednesday, 2tlay . The Battalion marched through 
beautiful countr). Everywhere Corot Landscapes, and 
avenues like those of de FIooch, and orchards just begin- 
ning to blossom ; in one of which we halted. 
The first rime I bave marched as part of a Battalion with 
Transport, etc. The pleasure of it all was partl) spoiled 
b) m, regrets at some gross pieces of incompetence 
on my part. 
Saturday, dlgay 6. A good village, and the lilics are out. 
Billcted at the house of a dressmaker who 
Sunday, d}lay 7, has been spending this morning fastening 
smoothing» and pinning ber small girl, who is to make ber 
first Communion to-day. 
lednesday, d}lay IO. ginother black day, though it should 
bave been a good one, for I did an interesting gidvanced 
Guard match with the Company and the Company Lewis 
Gun'detachment, which accompanied me for the first rime. 
The country and weather both very beautiful. 
Sunday» d}lay I+. Things are calming down a bit now, 
and it bas been a beastl) week, and I have learnt a good 
deal. There was a good church parade this moming. 
In the afternoon the sports. Wonderful side-shows» 
Aunt Sallies, etc. A wonderftdly organised obstacle race. 
It is amazing what a Battalion in the field can produce. 
There was a Rifleman doing clownish side-shows in a 



complete 
wanting. 
sports.) 

M. G.W. May 96 2I)" 
evening-dress suit. Nor was a megaphone 
The Divisional Band played. (But I hate 

We had a concert in a barn at 8 p.m. at which I played 
on a very poor violin which the Q_artermaster-Sgt. of 
« A' Company carries about with him though he doesn't 
play himself. 
Tuesday» 2lay I6. A big « extended order" parade over 
 champs de manœuvres" belonging to the French Govern- 
ment. 
Weather glorious» and oh! this place is beautiful. I 
long for an idle day to linger under the hawthorn» to be on 
the red clover just outside the farm gare listening to the 
cuckoo» and to watch those immaculate magpies stalking 
coolly in the long grass below the railway cutting. 
I4edne«day» 2rlay  7" Battalion parade in the saine place. 
Letters from Shrewsbury. How I want to be there! And 
the more I feel the glory of this early summer» the more I 
want it. 
l'4ight outposts in a wood. 
Friday» 2lay  9" The hawthorn is now glorious ber% as it 
surel), is round the foot of Caradoc.  
Saturday» 3lay OEo. We move from here at 6 to-morrow 
rnorning. I ara sorry to leave this place» its duck-pond 
orchard» and cider-press; the little boy who leads a 
different dog every day about on a string and the other 
good people of the farm who can't know about lire in 
towns» whose kingdom is sufficient ; the red clover fields 
and the orchard where our cookers are quietly busy 
the nightingales» and the May blossom. 

 At Church Stretton, near Shrewsbury. 



2Æa M.G.W. May 1916 
8urtday, 2tlay -.. I. An uneventful and hot very restful da),. 
One of the women owning our Mess billet was read), for us 
on out arrival with a marne chimne)'-piece l),ing in the 
three pieces,  exactl)' as it was when we left a week ago ". 
It was to cost a hundred francs. If she broke this on 
purpose, she bas had a severe loss. 
.Monday .May zz. We marched as a Brigade in great 
heat, halting for about an bout. At Orville 1 had a ver), 
delightful billet, ver), clean, with a wallpaper with little 
flowers on it, and a wash-hand-stand. A real civilised bed- 
room, in almost the onl)' two-storied house in Orville. 
A most courteous old lad), owned it, and she had at 
the back ofit a ver), neat kind ofgarden. The men bathed 
in the Authie. The people of out Mess billet were also 
ver), nice to us, and ruade us drink a large quantit), oftheir 
wooden cider when we arrived. 
Tuesday» .May z 3. At 6.o p.m. we started again» a further 
stage on the load towards the sound of the guns. It was 
dark most of the way, and as we got within ten toiles 
of the lines, the Ver), lights began to flicker a kind ofwel- 
corne at us. Arrived at an unlovable village, at about 
11.3o. The men's billets bad. When we came to find out 
Mess, we discovered a ver), angry high-screaming woma n, 
pushing out servants out of the door and depositing their 
rifles and tl;eir  sacs' after them. It appeared that the 
servants had come in and taken possession in rather a 
cavalier fashion. Indeed, the lad), brought in ber husband 
clad in pants and a shirt» and thus arra),ed he gave us 
a spirited imitation of the exact song and dance which the 
servants had done, his wit providing the music, l've 
never heard an), one so loud as that woman. I remarked 
that there were  des choses de plus mauvaises '.--Q.  QF_oi 



M. G.W. May 1916 :17 
donc ? '-- A. ' Les Allemands.'m, Alors, allez les chasser.' 
We assured them that, as usual, there would be money for 
all this. At that the man ceased to dance, but thc woman 
is still shouting, 
PUednesday, 2tlay OE+, and has just forbidden us to play 
with a tennis-ball in the orchard at the back. 
In the afternoon Company Commanders went up to the 
trenches, to see the ground for work. 
Thursday, A4ay x. Went up to the ground for work again 
this morning, with Gracey and Fagan, a weary walk. At 
night the Company worked in those saine trenches from 
9.3o to t.3o in Fouring tain. Got back in an «uneasy 
dawn' at 3-o a.m., drenched and muddied. And whereas 
we officers could change and sleep in something like beds, 
the men had hot a dry stitch save their great-coats in which 
tolie on the floor of their barns, and I felt ashamed at this 
unavoidable injustice. With the amount of comfbrt that 
an oflïcer bas and must hav% itis easy to love the tiredness 
for sleep and the hunger for food that are so frequent in this 
kind of lire. 
Friday» May z6. Slept till late in the morning. In 
the afternoon rode up to the trenches again with Patterson, 
and reconnoitred the night's work. Had a fine night and 
worked fi-om 9.3o to 1.3o , and then watched tl-.e day- 
light come as we marched back along Watling Street 
(so says the map)--Watling Street which is here under- 
mined with trenches and sometimes swept by machine gu:s, 
which leads t?om the trenclaes to Radlett, and so to Church 
Stretton and \Venlock Edge. There was a bombardment 
of the trench in front (our riont line) from  I.O to I I. t % 
and we had to stop work. 
During this day there were many turns and much glorious 



2x8 M.G.W. May xgx6 
futility, and I realised that I ara peculiarly fortunate in mt' 
fellow Company-officers. 
Tuesday» May 30. Made efforts to get in touch with 
the znd Battalion to see Buxton. A very idle day. 
Red The &ho/ar-Gilsy before going to bed. 
147ednesday, 2Vlay 3 x" I joined the t;th R.B. a year ago 
to-day. This cannot be celebrated b t, a dinner, because 
there is night work to be done. To-rnorrow» perhaps. 
Jocelyn Buxton carne ove. 
Fraser returned frorn 3rd Arrny School. It was very 
good to se him. I walked back part ofthe way with him 
after dinn«r. 

Thursday, )tune I. On an all-day working-party, digging 
cable trenches through the fiel&. 
After haversack lunch I lay in long cool grass and looked 
through tle dog-daisies and buttercups, and rernembered 
that it was June. 
We celebrated yesterday. Russell-Smith and Barnes 
and Johnstone came to dinner. Also the C.Q:_.M.S. brought 
me round quite a decent fiddle, which I played for 
some time. 

Sunday,)t,me 4" Church parade. Rode over to znd Bat- 
talion. Saw Buxton and others ofthe Sheerness people, and 
also Neale--they were encarnped in a place like Sidbury 
Hill, with a rolling chalk plain all about. 

Tuesday, )tune 6, a»d I¢Zednesday, )tune 7" Worked at night 
with forty men on Dog Trench a grass-grown ruin of a 
trench with destroyed dug-outs and the ruins of old bom- 
bardments--altogether an unpleasant place. We are to 
assemble in it on the day. It poured with rain all night. 



M. G.W. June I916 2I 9 
Friday» )tune 9" Again wet, but a dry night for work» and 
we deepened Dog undisturbed, though at rimes I thought 
the enemy must see us on so clear a night. They did see 
a party of C Company» and shelled with about ten 
whizz-bangs rapid. But no casualties. We are told that 
the enemy have put up a notice in front of their trenches, 
saying,  We know you are going to attack here. Eut you 
won't do it before Peace." 
8aturda)'» )ru»e  o. Rose at  z.4. ç and had a vely idle day. 
L'attaque" and reading. No night working-parties. We 
leave to-morrow night. 
2londay» )tune  z, to Friday, )tune  6. Working every night 
on assembly trenches. The first three nights tain poured, 
and the trenches were in such a state as to make movement 
very slow. 
The number of troops on the SERRE ROAD (Watling 
Street) at night is very great, and the chaos at trench junc- 
tions, when parties are returning at .o a.m. and converge 
on each other, is almost/udicrous. 
Traction engines corne through in the night, dragging 
huge guns and howitzers. Everywhere we see men strug- 
gling with boards, hurdles, and all kinds of building 
materials. 
Thursday, )ttme ! 7- After tea we went down the road, and 
saw a battery of I z-in. howitzers, put in position during the 
short hours of darkness last nightmalso their shells ! 
At night we continued on assembly trenches, camou- 
flaging all the work as before, and grassing over all the earth. 
Friday, )tune  6. The weather has cleared again., which is 
good, though it ruade the night very clear for work, and 
the Bosche drove us to ground with ' that' machine gun 
several times. But I don't think he has seen our work yet. 



220 ]I. G.W. June c9c6 
I am rather liking this lire ; at ieast I hate some of it so 
much that the good parts are glorious, which is the true 
kind of enjoyment. I hate starting out at night, with the 
possibility of casualties and of parties going astray up wrong 
trenches. But itis grand getting back in the dawn, and 
sitting down noisily to a sort of meal and a pipe belote 
going to bed. Fraser bas gone on leave. 
2rlonday )Curie 19. After my working-party went home at 
z.o, I waited for daylight to shew the N.C.O.'s of the 
Company round out assemblï area for tle attack. We all 
trooped home in the sunrise at ç.o o'clock, and Fagan and 
I had a very wonderful sort of breakfast. 
IVedneda),» )Curie zI. A reaIJune day ; but I seem to see 
nothing at present but a feverish and tired phantasmagoria 
of wagons» sand-bags, « material', copies of orders, men 
and horses. 
Thurday,)eune z. The Battalion moved back to Beaussart 
for a few days' test. Camp, instead of out old billets  and 
the lady, in wkose bouse we wcre to mess, drove us from 
the place with hard force oflogic and much shouting. \Ve 
failed to find a place till, at 8.0 in the evening, we borrowed 
a table and chairs from the Town Major's office, and put 
them in a disused house. 
In the evening the Colonel talked to the 13attalion. 
There was a wonderful sky in the north-west as I lay 
down in my valise, and I watched it under the flap of the 
tent, and I thought of many things that were under it. 
Country railway-stations, porters, and four-wheeled cabs 
came into the picture. A strange picture--but there is 
much of England in those things. And I thought of fields 
with hedges (the Man made me do that sorne weeks ago) 
and of blue hills, and of ail those dear people and things 



M. G.W. June i916 22z 
under that sky. Fraser returned while I was looking at 
these things. 
Friday» yune.. We had a before-going-into-action parade 
Service» which Laurie conducted. It was very impressive ; 
so was his short sermonmall of it almost too impressive» 
and I was mo»t awfully moved by it all. 
The guns are getting more active. In the afternoon Fraser» 
Fagan» and I rode over to Bertrancourt to see a raised relief 
model of the Divisional attack area. 
While we were waiting to start» a most terrific thunder- 
storm» with violent wind and rain--the sort of thing which 
they write about in the tropics» and of which there will be 
a kid of imitation beginning to-morrow. 
8aturday» yune z 4. 1 havejust bcen out at the back of the 
garden of out Mess billet» watching the horizon jumping 
into flame with our shells and» I suppose» the German 
shells too. 
The Sucrerie and the tronches beyond are now a new 
world» no longer the scene of humdrum working-parties 
drawing tools and looking forward to breakfast on return» 
but a region transformed by the beginning of the Great 
Battle. It began this morning early» quite unobtrusively» 
but very steady and continuous. 
There is not much noise here» as none ofthe batteries are 
within half a toile» and the Bosche shells are bursting over 
a toile away. From the south and north there is no sound» 
but an occasional flash. 
A very lazy day for me» and pleasant. I read and wrote 
and rcceived a fine mail. 
8undaî,» ue zç. Read Sorley's poems  which Jocelyn 
Buxton bas sent me. 

 See page zq4. 



zzz M.G.W. June 96 
The bombardment k.as become more noisy. This after- 
noon three of the German observation balloons have been 
blown up. I should have seen one ofthem go but when a 
Rifleman told me about it all I saw was a straight column of 
smoke. Hell is really let loose to-night. I have been out 
to the east edge of the villag% and Iooked over the fields at 
the murky horizon where the bursts of shell go flicker 
flacker. It is clear that their gun power is nothing to ours 
now. And knots of foul-mouthed men stand about men 
who have sat cowering and incapable of retaliation in the 
early days of Ypres and now exult over the merciless 
hurricane that is raging over tke Bosche lines. Ocers 
stand about in their calm way and comment on the play 
and a little white terrier brushes its way among the cor% 
which ma), and ma), not be reaped. 
Amid this pandemonium it is surprising to see and hear 
the ordinary circumstance oftrench warfare. Occasionally 
a Very light goes up scornful and inquiring and that' 
machine gun gets in a word or two between the bursts. 
And I have also been out along the lane to the west side 
of the village past the wild roses and the dog-daisies and 
looked across the spiky fringe of a battalion of corn at a 
quiet sunset with violet clouds that looked Iike comfortable 
mountains and watched a hedgehog trying to heave its way 
through the undergrowth. 

_Monday, .ïeune z6. The Divisional General addressed 
the Battalion in the morning. In the afternoon I went up 
to the SraCRERt to reconnoitre a communication trench for 
carrying parties. I had a good view of the German lines 
round Bv, aUMOhrT-HaMEL» and the fountains of earth and 
smoke and ruin which spouted there. 
At IO.O p.m. we moved to a bivouac a mlle to the south of" 



M. G.W. February I 9 1 6 2 2 3 
Beaussart, where the ground is shaken by a x 5-in. howitzer 
close bi,. I begin to have a sort of pre-Bumping-race 
feeling from time to time. Heavy tain poured at intervals, 
and the men had no cover. 
Tuesday, une z 7. Rested, while the guns roared round us. 
¢Vednesday une v.8. Due to go up to the trenches 
to-night; but orders came round that we were to stay in 
bivoua% the attack being postponed a short rime. Con- 
tinuous rain. 
Tkursday une z 9. I scribble my entry for the day, while 
my servant waits to pack up this little book in my valise. 
We go up this afternoon» and this book m,,st hot go too. 

LETTERS 

To J. O. W/a'Fvs.D. London. 
Feb. 8 x 9  6. 
Just a line in great haste. I'm off this afternoon I ara. 
For France I think» but hot quite sure. Nothing more 
committal than Southampton. Your turn in Blower's was 
lovely, x By Gad it shall be done. You wait. I don't 
think a full Face (do you ?) so much as just a touzled head 
just peeping out. The Salopians would never know it was 
a toaster at the Schools, and they would continue to send 
their boys as beforemand they would be right. 
Must stop. This is all very exciting. I wonder how I 
shall get on. 

i There was a specimen of a furnished bed-room in a shop- 
window at Shrewsbury. It was suggested that one might slip in» 
and be round by passers-by asleep in the bed. 



224 M.G.W. February 196 

To TH MEI--THE NEw HousE. Southampton. 
Fe3. 8 1916. 
Itis all ver), incredible. Here we all sit, packs ofofficers» 
dining, drinking, and smoking ; and I can't make out ifit is 
tbe most miraculous, or tbe most inevitable tbing in tbe 
wor]d. 
Nothing to make a letter of--only wharves jetties» vague 
staff--majors at desks stretches of water and the stoi% 
sardonic, not to say laconic British officers everywhere. 

To HrS SISTER. B.E.F. 
Friday Fek. I8o 
With the use of some carbon paper I ara saving rime by 
getting off" the saine letter to home» Radlett» and Bala. 
We've been a cool twenty hours so far on this journey from 
Rouen which we left at 5.30 yesterday evening. Not 
quite the old kind of night journey: the engines make a 
new kind of noise now. I complained about this inartistic 
innovation to an official and he said it was a new kind of 
engine. Still, we've been very comfortable all night. 
I think the strings of my violin might be let down a 
little : 
E string 5 tones, 
A » 4 ,, , 
D ,, . ,,  leaving tbem tight enough to 
keep the bridge up. 

To H1S SISTER. Ist R.B.--B.E.F. 
Fe. I9, 1911. 
I joined my Company yesterday, some toiles away from 
the Battalion H.., where I wrote from last. We are 
billeted in a little typical French village, with hil]s all round, 
and a Maire» and a church with bells all Sunday long» and 
childrcn who say :  How-do-you-d% Sir : quite well thank- 



iI. G.W. February 1916 
you.' Itis very cold here, but signs of Spring on the 
ground ; e.g. a general sort of waking up» and those loose 
blue flowers one finds in woods and thinks are violets at 
first. 
Things here are very snaart. I used to think the disci- 
pline at honae wasn't bad, but heremby Jove! There are 
fbur otcers in this Conapany. We bave our Mess in a 
dank back-kitchen sort of place» which isn't any too warna. 
But I expected to go straight into the ftooded trenches» 
which is a very diffcrent marrer. The Conapany Com- 
mandcr is a Scotchnaan, a Cambridge Rugger Captain and 
International» and very etcient-seeming, l've got an 
awfully good servant» who says,  May I offer a suggestion, 
Sir ? ' 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Ist Batt. Tbe Biffe Brigade-- 
B.E.F. 
Feb. I9» 9I. 
Thank ),ou ever so nauch for your letter, which I found 
with delight on arrival here last evening» after twenty-four 
hours" journey from Rouen--not that I ana really so far frona 
Rouen as ail that, but that the train sat in a siding naost of 
the night. I have been nearly a fortnight in France now. 
I ana glad thit naost of the delay was at Rouen» which it 
was ver), good to revisit. I really think it is one of the 
cities ofthe world. Another Special Reservist and I arrived 
here in a farna cart, for all the world like two émigrés 
naaking their escape--the Transport oflïcers between them 
having arranged that we should get out one station too far 
up the line. 
It was really rather funny, our arrival yesterday. I kept 
leaning out ofthe carriage window as the traita crept along, 
very excited to hear the first gun, and wondering ifI should 



226 

M. G.W. February i9 I6 

be under shell tire in a few hours, etc. etc. ; and then, two 
hours later, I was hiring a cab to take me to my Regirnent, 
where on arrival I was shewn rny way to a real bed-room 
and then began a four-course dinner with oysters. There's 
a srnall chance of out being out ofthe line for three rnonths. 
That would be awful, to corne out to the Front and never 
see a trench for three months. 
I haven't heard fi'orn SouthweI1 since 1 got out. I'rn 
atraid I shall not run up against hirn here. I can't rernern- 
ber how rnany bookse]lers l've told to send me  V. s '. If 
they all get here, there will be one for each oflïcer in the 
Battalion. 

To H. E. E. Howsol. 1st R.B.--B.E.F. 
Fe. ŒEo, I916. 
These villages are ail sirnilar, each in a little hol]ow in 
the hills, each with its Maire and its church. I opened 
the door and went in, and  I then saw that what they were 
at was Vespers '. 
Man, I have heard the guns going  b'm zrnph'. It was 
very exciting, the first hearing. Rather absurd, I expect, 
that seerns ; but it was so. It was like seeing great rnen 
and saying,  So that " Mr. Asquith '. 

To TI-IE MEN--THE NEw Hoes.. Somewhere in France. 
Fe. 1916. 
Two Men haçe met, not by arrangement of their own, 
but by the inscrutable designs of the British Army Staff; 
hot ata Base camp, but in the War Area. This is vert 
arnazing and should be reported to the other Men at once. 
[' In fact, the situation is sornething you couldn't believe. 

 This paragraph is inserted in E. H. L. S.'s handwriting. 



M.G.W. February96 

227 

Osbick»' for a week on cnd» is not at ail impossible in the 
afternoons. The Man is in good form» but leaves some- 
thing to be desired in the matter of health. He rmains. 
however, a good man.] 
The Man» oa the other hand» is O.C. Company, and is 
a Bru M,,t¢. I have heard him giving his routine orders 
to his Coy. S.M. and it is a very wonderful thing. The 
Man has securcd a bottle of whisky for his Mess» so that's 
all right. 

To HS SlSTER. st R.B.B.E.F. 
Feb. 22» I916. 
\Vell» what do you think ? I met Southwell yesterdaym 
an incredible piece of good luck. I am likdy to see him 
again quite often for some timc. It is so extraordinary 
that itis hard to realise. It seemed quite natural tobe 
sitting round a stove tire in a kind of back-kitchen. I still 
fancy that I shall wake up soon and find it "s a dean b though 
the cold and wet a:-e real enough, lt's been trying to snow 
to-day. 

To R. A. Krox. st _R.B..B.E.F. 
Feb. z3» 916. 
And so I said» ' I will write to him to% but in inl,. It 
is rime.' 

I am reassured about you temporarily by aletter from 
Chambers» = who tells me you had a birthday lately» and of 
your hopele»s omniscience of  Kennedy'the only original 

* Riding on horseback.  In V.  at the time. 
3 Kennedy's Latin Primer. White had defendedin a debate 
Dr. Kennedy's claires to bave invented the Classics. See page 8. 



228 M.G.W. February 19 16 
classical work. And here is Tke Salopian just corne fom 
that excellent man Kitch, wh/ch gives me further news 
of you. 
Of my amazing meeting with the Man there is nothing 
to say except that, if Tolstoy was writing lar and Peace 
now, he would use the incident with great effect to shew 
that it ii not Joffre or Haig, but rate, which orders things. 
He would also say this for two or three chapters, just as 
one was getting interested in some charming old people 
in Moscow. (Le«tor. « For Heaven's sake.' 21e. ' Well: 
l've just finished that work.')  
Of myself there is little to say that I have not said in 
previous letters to Men. I am living a ver)' similar lire to 
the Man's, though he sys ' Out tea is better than theirs', 
but I say ' Look at their tire '. 

To C. R. N. ROUTH. xst R.B.--B.E.F. 
Feb, z6» 1916. 
It is brought home to me that my last communiqué was 
from Southampton. Now Southampton is a place, a very 
distinct place. Situated at the head of two gares to the 
English Channel, and having two rides a day (see the 
Venerable Bede on the history of the Englisb Church), it 
possesses a marine traflïc second only to that of London, 
Liverpool, Glasgow» and many others. But since then I 
have seen other cities, Havre, Rouen, , ,  
and . Do you know Rouen ? Very well, we will see 
it before we wa]k through Shropshire. Rouen possesses 
everythingmwonderfu] churches, a fine river, good and 
imaginative smells (not unconnected with the river), good 
restaurants,-but also a Base camp for which I was glad 

 See Tte Patb to lme, passim. 



M. G.W. March 96 
ço leave Rouen. I once learnt French at Rouen» and it 
was good to revisit the people with whorn I stayed. 
l've been with the Battalion a week now. We are out 
of the line for a month's test» wlfich will be over before 
very long. Rather lucky for me that I did hot go up to 
the trenches straight away» as I got a chill which has 
developed into modified bronchitis ; a distinct bore» as it 
is awfttlly dicult to get rid of in damp billets and bad 
weather. I'm only hoping I shall be really fit to go into 
the trenches. I have a horror of getting into hospital 
before l've seen the Huns. 
The really notable fact is that I have met Southwell» 
which was an event. 
Rather jolly hill country this» and the villages have 
that French villages stould b.ave ; a Maire» a town crier» 
large hcaps of steaming straw» pigeons» and a grey church 
in a commanding po»ition. Te people of my billet are 
 des honnêtes gens ' and I ara writing this from the store 
in their kitchen, which I prefer to our Coy. Mess which 
has got a tire at last ; but that tire smokes s% that one 
can't sec across the room. 

To HIs SISTERo ISt R. B.  B.E.F. 
Sat. _March or» 1916. 
I haven't written belote ; but» as you now know» I only 
heard yesterday2 It is so hard to realise it out here. 
shall hOt realise it indeed, I think» until and unless I return 
to Mere Cottage and find him gone. He has always been 
such a big living fact in out little lires. There never was 
a Father in the world before as good and as generous. His 
happiness consisted chiefly in the happiness of us, as it was 
 His father had died on February ZT. 



2 3 o M.G.W. March 19 I 6 
with Mother. And now it is good to tlink of tlaose two 
dear souls continuing a greater life in the saine path. I 
can't help thinking of Dr. Spicer's remark to ïou and me ; 
« We think he is a wonderful man.' That was just one of 
the little reminders of the wonderful attractiveness of his 
charact«r, which influenced people so very quicklï. And 
now, according to G.'s and A.'s letters we are hearing of 
that from the many, many hosts of pople who loved him 
and admired lais goodness. 

To H. E. E. Howsolg. 1st R.B.MB.E.F. 
larch 4, 1916. 
The chief thing about this crisis for me has been the 
impossibility of realising out here what has happened and 
a feeling of being cut off from the rest of my famiIy by this 
inaccessibilitï and the lack of any kind of lamiliar sur- 
roundings. I date say you won't quite understand me when 
I say this. I don't understand it myself. The last two 
days I seem to bave been living in a kind of coma. 
I am ver)' glad you got to know my father that jolly week 
last winter at Mere Cottage» and to like him. All did 
whoever came across him. He had quite a wonderful 
attractiveness for people who sometimes F.ad only known 
him for a few hours even. 
He had a very happy lire, really ; full of poetryMin the 
sense I mtan, that he loved and taugl-.t me to love, such 
a lot of those things which you and I agree to be good ; 
mountains and mountain streams clouds west winds good 
manners and gentleness to humble country people» and 
good books. In nearly all my Alpine'  moments, he was 
hOt far away. 
 See page IZZ. 



M. G.W. March 1916 

To J. D. CHAMBERS. X st Battn. Rifle Brigade-- 
B.E.F. 
$,,ndaT, 2Vlarch , 1916. 
I have been living quite a normal kind of existence with 
parades, and buttered eggs, and tooth-paste, and all the 
usual products of civilis.tion, including a real good 8ritish 
influenza cold ; the sort I used to have in IV. i aut this 
rime ofyear, when the windows were kept hOt too open, and 
my retaper was a little higher than the normal, and my 
arrivals in Ist Lesson a little later than the normal, and 
the dust off the blackboard very objectionablequite an 
unpleasant experience, which I should be very glad tobe 
going through now. 
We are bi]leted in a village in some hilly country, which 
is chiefly remarkable for the public way in which they kill 
their pigsat the cross-roads, ifyou plcase, for 1 the world 
to see, weekly on Thursdays at noon. This afternoon they 
bave had a fox hunt» which means digging a trench where 
you suppose the fox tobe, and there a crowd of men and 
dogs of every species, flore Great Danes to Dachshunds, 
wait for the fox with various weapons. 

To HIS SISTER. xst R.B.--B.E.F. 
Sunday, 2Vlarch % 1916. 
It bas been qui_te a fine day, and l've been walking about 
on ' the bill at the back ' and thinking ofyou all and thinking 
of Father. (It is natural to think of him among hills, isn't 
it ?) It is sad to me to think how hopelessly I bave failed 
to deserve or make return for all his great love. Sad, too, 
to bave been so cut off from you all, these days, chiefly by 
rime. 



232 M.G.W. March 
But, dearest Mary, your ]etter is full of hope, and quite 
rightly. Remember that he almost approached old age with- 
out ever being old, and was his lively and devoted self right 
up to the end. It is good that a good man's life should be 
]ikc that, even though it ends sooner than we could have 
expected. Since the War, I bave begun to feel more of 
death as being only a door into some greater lire, and 
familiarity with death makes one feel very close to those 
who have died. 
I had always thc regretful feding that I did nothing 
for him, and he did everything for me. 

To MRS. WHITFIELD. Oxto». 
dlarch I, 1916. 
I ara so very grateful for your very kind letter. It was 
very good of you to write. Yes, I feel with you and with 
Jack that all our losses in the last eighteen months bave 
given us a dit{erent view of death; and though I cannot 
regard it as anything less of a calamity, yet it is easier, 
through familiarity with it, to view it against a happier 
background and in a truer perspective. 
My father was only ill for a short rime, and death found 
him as we shall always be glad to remember him, lively 
and full oF good work and active generosity. 

To HIS SlSTER. 
On the train, retur»ing to London for France. 
2qprll 6» 1916. 
Peop]e (e. g. Graham) bave inquired what papers I wanted 
sending out. I should like the 2Yla»chester (ïuardlan and the 
Literary &qalalement of the Times (Id. fortnightly). And I 
should also be ver}, grateful for any Press notices which 



M. G.W. April 96 

233 

may appear of  V. B '. I ara enclosing a bit of my diary 
which I should have left with all the other pages. 
Well, it was a fine send-off you gave me, and very good 
of you all. I hopc you were rcwarded with a good break- 
fast as it leaves me at present. 

To Hs SISTER. st R.B. Transport, 
z mlles behi»d the trenches. 
Saturday, Ipril 8,  916. 
I have got my back up against " nice sunny ba, rk, and 
the sun and violets and cowslips are grand, l've just been 
watching two huge guns doing this in an orchard close by :-- 
 Whish ', a«dible for IO secs. 
I'm going up to the trenches to-night. It's a lovely 
day  altogether, liçe isn't too b.d. 
We've had a fine Band playing Carmen and TipFerary and 
Yeomen of the Guard, and  all t|ose bcautiful things', in 
front of the church. The guns, going off zoo yards away 
during the music, suggested a School Sports' Day. We 
are hOt very far from the place where we were when the 
Battalion was in test. I should like again to emphasise 
the scrumptiousness of the day. 

To H. E. E. Howso. rst R.B.--Trenches. 
8unday, Aprll 9, 1916" 
I tried to find time to send you a line yesterday belote 
coming up» but no. I want to tell you about three things. 
(I) A walk» IZ to I a.m., on a dark night, when the +th 
Division lorry, having brought me up from the rail-head, set 
me down at a village and said,  There ; now find your 
Battalion'. WelI, my Battalion was in the trenches as a 
marrer of fact; but I was advised to find the ISt Line 



z34 M.G.W. April 9d 
Transport. So .[ walked several toiles over a high» wind- 
swept plateau» and while I walked I discovered the \Var. 
For the ground sloped away on the left» ad tae sky was 
being always lit up by star-shells» and the machine guns 
and rifles and guns went 'tat tat tat' and ' bang' and 
' boom' respectively» at two toiles away. l've told you 
about that walk because I think you will understand, There 
was also, with it ali» the uncertaizty of my finding any one 
o'- any bed that night ; but after rousing the watch-dogs 
and the sentries at the village oF , I woke the Trans- 
port officer, who put me to bed. 
(z) I then want to teIi you about the spring day we had 
yesterday, at the Transport place two mlles back ; and how 
at the saine tire% within a radius of zec yards, a Band and 
a 9.z battery played together to an audience of Tommies 
v«ith bow legs leading horses, fluttering pigeons and an 
austere grey churcla steeple» and me. Then, in the evening» 
t!-e Transport officer and I rode up to Battalion Head- 
quarters (dug-outs all along a rond, like low shops in a 
mediaeval town), and an orderly led me out along a lane 
and a communicxtion trench» under a wonderful sky of 
stars, to the dug-out where I now ara. 
(3) Just before lunch» the Huns shel!ed this trench with 
rive or six rounds, getting a direct hit with one of them and 
filling up a bit of trench temporarily. They sounded as if 
they were coming straight for my dug-out» and I was afraid 
where no fear was. What a wonderful way of putting it. 
Great man, the Psalms. 
It is very hard to believe in the seriousness of all this 
banging» especially on a gorgeous day like this. One is 
sort of mesmerised into accepting it as a kind of game. 



M. G.W. April I 9 I 6 2 3 J" 
To HIS SlSTER. Ist R.B.--Trenc/:es. 
8unday lpril 9» 1916" 
After writing to you yesterday, I started out on a nice 
pony and a beautiful evening, and reached Battalion H.Q« 
dug-outs at 7.30, and then was guided on my first walk to 
the trenches--a very thrilling walk down a long and decp 
communication trench under a roof of brilliant stars. In 
ten minutes I reached the Company H.Qc. dug-out , where 
Ï had a cheerful reception from theother officers, who were 
conveniently at dinner. 
To-day has been another lovely day--larks singing and 
magpies lolloping about over the lines. 
The trenches are nothing like what 1 expected. Shells 
etc. fly about over us at all angles, on out own and the 
Germans'. 
A wonderful dawn and sunrise this morning. Could you 
send me some mustard and cress seeds, and any other 
seeds (flowers or a vegetable due to grow quickly) which 
you might think suitable ? Very little ; just enough to make 
a joke with in the communication trench. 
To A. E. KII'CHIN. st R.B.Tbe tre»ches. 
_dpril I% 916. 
Ï ara now sitting in gorgeous sunshine after lunch outside 
Company H.Q:. dug-out, smoking a cigar. The weather 
is beautifu], there is lots to see, hOt very much shelling so 
tkr» and I ara in the midst of a lot ofvery new and interest- 
ing experiences. I ara enjoying life very much (as I write 
now, one of our aeroplanes is right overhead, pursued by 
little white halls of shrapnela wonderful sight in a bluc 
sky like to-day's). Yesterday we were shelled with about 
six rounds by a howitzer, two of which fell near H.Q. dug- 
out and filled up the trench for a time. Ï was quite 



z3 6 M.G.W. April  9  6 
frightened by them, as one could hear them commg for 
some time ahead. 
I do wish I could express my whole psi'chological attitude 
to all this--some day I shall tri,. At present I feel it's 
beyond the powers of psychology and literature--the 
apparent harmlessness of all this banging and whizzing in 
such fine weather, making the whole thing seem like a 
game which one has been prevailed upon to play out of 
mere compliance with the established order of things ; the 
growing familiarity with the various frequent noises, like 
the two German machine guns which join in like geese 
raising an alarm, when an aeroplane is flying low; the 
diffCent btteries, and all the sounds to which one assumes 
a kind ofpersonal attitude and well understands why the 
armies have given names to thcm like  Archibald ', etc. 

To HIS SISTER. 1st R.B.B.E.F. 
lpril 3, x9 6. 
It is such a strange sensation, waking after two hours' 
sleep, during which one has forgotten all about the snapping 
of rifles and flares and chattering of machine guns, to final 
that one is at the Front, and to stagger chill and sleepy 
out of one's dug-out into the middle of it again. Then it 
is so strange, also, that after Stand-to-arms an hour belote 
daylight, we breakfast at daylight (ç.]c or 6.), and go to 
bed afterwards. Waking up belote lunch is so odd. One 
has quite forgotten which meal one had last. I was called 
the other day with the words : « Lunch is ready, Sir.' 

To HIS SlSTER. Ist R.B.--B.E.F. 
Sunda),, AI)ri/16. 
This is after lunch in the sun and the orchard at the back 
of out billets. We had a good Church Parade this morning. 



M. G.W. April I916 237 
Our Chaplain is certainly a fine man. Afterwards with 
two nice fcllows who are officers in my Company, I walked 
to  and picked cowslips and oxlips in the orchards 
there. The weather is beautifil to-day--lately it bas been 
very April, snow and hall showers and a cold wind, with 
moments of brightness. We go back to trenches again 
to- mor row. 

To E. H. L. SOUTHWELL. ISt R.B.--B.E.F. 
lpril I8, I916. 
I suppose you bave your copy of 'V.B'? I bave two 
copies out here, owing to a mistaken order to a bookseller. 
I bave given it quite a vulgar putT among booksellers, and 
I ara supposing that it occupies a large position in a 
Trinity Street 13ook Shop window at Cambridge. Have 
you got a Press-cutting agency to send you all notices and 
reviews of it ? (' The practical man'--yes ; but you ought 
to, really, oughtn't you?) Any one will find you a news- 
paper-cutting agency. I want the names of the authors 
of ' The weather bas thrown off its weeds "--it's ver), 
gooJ tt-at, almost as French as the original--and 'The 
Fairy's Story ", please. 
I came up to the trenches ton days ago, alone. \Ve've 
had a few days in billets, and we go up again to-night. I 
expect I shall discover the real nature of War before long. 
Do you know, Man, I bave a kind of loyalty to the New 
House, through all this, which I believe could become 
positively offensive, if provoked. 
XVith regard to the Press-cutting agency, I intended to 
remark that ' London must be full of them by all accounts ; 
you bave only got to walk along the street till you see a red 
lamp ', or something like it. 



z 3 8 M.G.W. April  9  6 

To J. M. WEST. ISt R.B.--Trencbes. 
lpril OE'-, 1916. 
I'm afraid this isn't really a ' Shell" letter, because so far 
I haven't had one nearer than 7 ° yards. However, betbre 
I give you any news, I will describe the various shells and 
my attitude to them :-- 
() The ' Whizz-bang'; which cornes from a field-gun, 
dose up to the enemy's front line, and is generally 
shrapnel. This bursts almost before you know it is 
coming, so that there is no rime to feel frightened, and one 
says, ' Hallo (hello, halloah, halo, etc. [there are various 
ways of spelling this]), that was a shell ' 
(z) Out own ; which one hears whistling through the air 
all the way, from the report of the gun to the explosion 
near the enemy's lines. One knows roughly wEere they 
are, and there is nothing to excite more than a mi!d 
interest. 
(7) The enemy's big-gun and howitzer shells. These, 
especially the latter, can be heard whistling for some rime, 
and one can tell if they are coming in one's direction or 
hot. These have afected me unpleasantly ; a series of 
them came over, and one hit out trench one da),. It was 
not very a!arming, because 1 was in bed in my dug-out at 
the rime. Still, I did just feel as I heard them coming 
that it rnigbt be serious, and felt like saying, ' For goodness" 
sake burst, and tell me where you are ' 
Now that, I imagine, is the real shell feeling, which is 
accentuated in the case of a real bombardment, which I 
bave not experienced. 



ll. G.W. April 96 239 
To J. O. WHITFIELD. Ist R.B. 
wlpril zS, I96. 
The avcrage letter expressing sympathy is always kind, 
but often so conventional. I, who have written such, know 
that only too well. Yours was ont of those which I have 
read and re-read. Your views on death, I ara sure, are the 
right ones, whatcver the diculty in fitting tl:em in with 
the apparent irnportance oflife. An incidtnt in the lire 
ofthe soul'--that is very good, and really enabies one to 
combine the importance of life with the comparative un- 
importance of death. I date say you feel the importance 
oflife much less than I do. I often wish that I regaldcd it as 
nothing. It would make it so much easier to face death. 
Still your phrase, ' Incident in the life of the soul ', allows 
one to keep a philosophy which values life and laughs at 
death with equal sincerity. 
So far, the horrors of war for me bave been chiefly the 
wetness, coldness, and mud of tlae trenches. Tl;e/3osches 
are over r,ooo yards away from the 8oo yards of front held 
by out Company, and the shelling bas not been very 
serious» and amid much beastly weather there have been 
sunny days, when the singing of many larks, and the 
whistling of shells and cracking of rifles and chattering or 
machine guns, have seemed, ail of them, to be elements in 
a gaine which might become dangerous, if allowed to go 
too far. 
I do hot suppose things will always be as mild as that. 
And indeed, from  personal point of view» I hope they 
won't. I want to go through the worst of it, though I 
don't look forward to it, and ara still in great doubt as to 
what I shall be like. 
Meanwhile I ara enjoying this life much more than I 
expected. 



240 

M. G.W. April 

I have news of the Man, from a good Captain of this 
13attalion» who had sojourned with the 9th Battalion for 
some weeks. He says the Man is always doing everybody's 
work» if not watched. 

To HIS SISTER. ISt R.B. 
Ttcesa¢a),» _/119ril z5» 1916. 
Do you happen to know if any one has ordered the fort- 
nightly Literary SuI)pleme»t of tbe Times to be sent to me ? 
It would be nice to scc it. 
We came out of the trenches on Sunday night» and we 
are living a sot of semi-trcnch lire in support (i. e. the 
second line of defence). Out Mess is in a room with 
a large fireplace and one arm-chair. The four subalterns, 
we occtlpy a dug-out constructed out of the remains of 
a ruined bouse; most snug» and the beds are grand. 
I ara writing this in shirt-sleeves outside that dug-out. 
My platoon are billeted in the cellars of the ruined 
Gendarmerie. In fact» this village is pretty well knocked 
about ; but nothing can spoil the beauty and exhilaration 
of this Spring day. Just a touch of delicate grey on 
the trees, and swallows gliding in and out of the ruins. 
I wonder what they thought of their village the first rime 
they returned since the War. 
l've had another letter from Mary Swan» and a book 
(Carry On) which she very kindly sent me. Also, a most 
amusing letter from R. A. Knox» with a gaine of L'at- 
taque on paper, which he calls ' Out L'attaque Crner' 
--' Huns to play and win in eight moves» à la weekly 
papers '. 



M. G.W. April 1916 241 
To C. R. N. ROUTH. ISt R.B.--B.E.F. 
.,4pril z6, I96. 
At present my Company is in close support ; sort ofcom- 
bined billets and dug-outs ruade out ofthe ruins of a village, 
which must bave been dear toits inhabitants when they lived 
herc, and still dear to its swallows who bave just returned. 
' Le temps a laissé son manteau,' and life is really grand. 
You will find, probably, as I did, that the noises and cir- 
cumstance ofthis trench life will appeal to the imagination 
very strongly. But, of course, that cannot last. Still, I 
still take pleasure in an aeroplane in a clear sky, haloed by 
white compact halls of shrapnel smoke. 

To E. H. L. SOUrHWELL. 

Man, 
Le temps a laissé son manteau, x 

To R. F. BAILEY. 

Much love from 
A Man. 
xst R.B. 
In second lineMclose support. 
wtpril z7» 96. 

I have so çar seen little of the horrors of war ; and I ara 
divided between extreme satisfaction with this really happ}, 
existence, and a desire to go through something really bad 
belote long, for the saine psychological reasons that make 
us ail want to fight, and that make it so hard for ou to stay 
at home. 
It is very good of },ou to say' Do I want anything to 
read ? '--Nov I should like to read E. F. Benson's school 
story, if },ou would care to send me your copy when you 
bave finished with it. 
i See page x8 3, 



242 

M. G.W. April I9:t6 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. Ist R.B.--B.E.F. 
wlpril zl, I916. 
There are good rnen here, «vpor,o,', which rneans 
' arnenable to turns ', though I arn afraid there is a lirnit to 
one's liberty to be futile. 
You want to know why they say, ' Shakespeare out-tops 
knowledge '. Well, he does, doesn't he ? I thought that 
was understood. (At this point the Man would say» ' Oh ! 
hot a good man '.) 

To R. A. KNox. 1st Rifle Brigade. 
llay I, I916. 
It's all right about the Man. At least, I hope it is. For 
Barclay has returned to this Battalion, leaving the Man his 
Cornpany» and bringing with hirn certain observations on 
the Man which proved his identy (never say ' identity' in 
the Arrny any more than you would say' ignorniny '. In 
fact, it is possible [rnind, I don't say it often happens]» 
possible for a man to be discharged with igomy for losing 
his identy disc.) {Or is it). ? I never know.} 
That'll puzzle you a bit. 
The Hun is being rather worriting this afternoon» and as 
I feel secure» more or less, in this large and rich dug-out» I 
also feel that I ought to go out and expose rnyself a little 
rnore, just to shew I'rn hot afraid, which I arn. 
I arn sorry about those peas. Of course I rernernbered it 
in the train, on rny return that day. Still it is not too late 
now, is it ? I was thinking of having a little garden all rny 
own, outside rny dug-out» and have ordered sorne rnustard 
and cress to start with, frorn home. 



ll. G.W. llay 1916" 243 

To nrs BRo'rER-rr«-raw, L. J. REm. B.E.F. 
Tuesday, 2V1ay 9,  9 6. 
It bas poured all to-day. We were to bave done a 
Company marcl b which I had been interesting myselt 
about. But it didn't corne otk. I bave a very exccllent 
billet her% at thc house of a dressmakers who is always 
sewing and bas lay figures standing mutely in various parts 
of the room. (Why are they called 'lay figures' ?) It is 
morc than usually tidy» and though my bed is at an angle 
of+ç degrees» I ara vmy comfortable there. The lady was 
very busy on Sunday» with pins in ber mouth and a puckered 
brow» getting ber little girl ready for ber first Communion. 
l've just had a little ride in the rain. Last evening I gave 
a lecture to my N.C.O.'s in the village school» where I met 
the Schoolmaster (a war substitute), and I told him I was also 
' maître d'ecole ' and we had a little chat about Teaching and 
the Allies. (That's a lic- but see the Tirnes Educational 
Supplement I4/'eekly.) The school is a single room» decorated 
with maps» and pictures called ' La Morale par Illustration » 
in which the various virtues are depicted. A landowner 
shaking hands with a farmer is ' Cordialité dans les rapports'. 
A man carrying a child ri-oto a burning building is  Devoue- 
ment'. Altogether» it is a most model school» and the key 
is kept at the Café over the way. 
We bave a very good room for Company Mess this rime ; 
and there is a nice farm-yard, with a hrge dung-heap on 
which cocks crow and a donkey» and a dog-kennel» and in 
it sometimes a dog and somctimes a child and sometimes 
both. 13eyond the yard is a beautiful orchard. 
To-morrow we do a Company Match, and I shall bave 
with me the Company» two oflïcers, and machine gun on a 
cart» and my own ponya regular army ail to myself. 
R  



244 M.G.W. May 19 I {J 

To C. A. ALINGTON. B.E.F. 
.May 9, 1916" 
1 was awfully glad to get your letter flore the Chantry, 
when we were in the trenches lately. Thank you very much. 
We are at present right out of the line again, bilieted in 
a charming, village, with innumerable farm-yards, dung- 
heaps, and cocks that crow on them, orchards almost at 
their best, lilacs, a Maire in a straw bat, and a school, 
where yesterday I gave my N.C.O.'s a lecture on Advanced 
Guards and covered myselfwith chalk at the blxckboard and 
felt sorrowfully reminiscent. 
One does appreciate the O.T.C. here, and I don't know 
what part ofits work I could do without. Incidentally, too, 
I find it is important to be able to ride a horse without 
falling off'or getting up the wrong side. 
I suppose the Summer terre has started, and that cover- 
points are shivering amid a wealth oç dripping but gorgeously 
green trees. May is a good month after all. It is lovely 
here. 
A shell fell within twenty yards of me the other day. I 
tell everyboày this, as I'm rather proud of it. 

To HS Ss'R. B.E.F. 
Smday, lay  4,  916. 
Yesterday we had a very gooJ Church Parade, which I 
liked ver), much, with the Divisional BanJ playing. In 
the afternoon, regimental sportswith a lot of side-shows 
like Aunt Sallies etc., and Riflemen got up as showmen, 
one of them even in a complete evening-d-css suit with 
top-bat. In the evening we had a concert in a barri, with 
the Divisional Band again. I played Humoreske and 
Perpetuo Mobile on a very poor fiddle which the Q.q_arter- 
master-Sergeant of « A ' Company ca:ries about with him. 



M. G.W. IMay rgr6 24.5" 

To HIS SISTER. B..E.F. 
Friday» dh¢ay 19, 1916. II p.m. 
Here are nightingales corncrakes, hawtlzorn, bcautiful 
weather, and everything radier Englisl, except that the 
fields are hedgeless and, as Southwe]l writes, inviting 
malloetlvre '. 

To HIS SISTER. SllTlad¢y, dl!t . !, 1916. 
When ve got here this morning, the ovner of our Mess 
billet was l e:dy for us with a marble chimney slab, which 
she says we broke last week, when we were bore. I shou]d 
think sV.e did it with a sledge-hammer, myself. After a 
long sbrieking argument with hcr, she getting in ten words 
to my one, I said I would make myself acquainted with 
some of the elementar)z facts of the case. She said that it 
was a marrer of ioo francs. te ne pese pas. 
Madame: « Vous ëtes justement sortis du village, quand 
je suis entré dans le garage pour voir s'il y avait du feu ou 
de telle chose, et  ah! mon Dieu, voilà mon marb:e cassé 
en trois morceaux.' 
.,ir. G. /4 2. : « Mais» madame, vus m'avez dit cela trois 
fois,' etc. 
It is awfully hot now. I think we shall be back in the 
line again in the next few days. 

To R. A. Klox. 1st R.B. 
1 am feeling rati:cr incapaHc of writing a decent ]etter 
to any one. Life bas been very dpressing latcly, as l've 
ben ve-y incompetent as O.C. Company, and when that 
hapFens , the authorities makc it their business to make one 
feel like tle boy xvl:o goes a'out perpetually saying, ' \Vhat 



246 

M. G.W. May  9  6 

shall we say, if he asks us, Where we've been, What we've 
been doing, etc. ?" 
Ail this, too, in the midd]e of very hard work and very 
beautiful country. «Nor is the sicklewort absent» the 
green-leaved endive." 
By the way, nightingalesmare they really good ? 
Well (as 'the Men' always say in their letterç, plcase 
tel] those Men I ara about to write again very soon, and 
please write again, and please give my love to all my 
friends in your form. 

To Mss. I--]OWSON. 1st Bu. tke Rifle Brlgade.-- 
B.E.F. 
«lay ZT, I916. 
I bave been very busy lately, in temporary cornmand or 
my Company, and always shadowed by the knowledge that, 
if I did a thing well, it would be taken for granted, and if 
I did anything wrong, or if anybody in my Company did 
anything wrong (which is the saine thing), I should most 
certainly be blamed. Ail this, at a rime when this country 
bas been almost as beautitïul as England, gave me much 
sympathy with the Scout in Punch» who was sent out to 
find the enemy, and returned breathless, saying ' The lilacs 
are out'. As indeed they are. 
I never know what to tlfink about democracy, except 
that it seems to me the most ideal kind of government, 
and the only really justifiable one. It is the only system 
which does ultimately and theoretically lead to freedom. 
I always feel that it is a system which bas never gone 
right yet, but which it is a duty to make to go right. 
It produces bad results, but it bas got to be ruade to 
produce good results, simply because in the world of 



lXl. G.W. l,lay 1916 247 
idea, and hOt in the world of iCact, it is the right systern. 
I do agree with you rnost heartily as to the hopelessness 
of dernocracy without education. It is terribly unfortu- 
nate that the hour-hand of Power should be so far ahead 
of the minute-hand of Education. But I don't think 
we can help that» except by putting forward the minute- 
hand of Education. And, by the way, it is comforting to 
rernernber tha% with rnost clocks, the minute-hand also 
works the hour-hand. At present we seern to be letting 
Education surfer by the War equally with other things. 
The saying that  We don't care about Education in England ' 
seerns to be quite true. 
But ail this does not prove the badness of democracy as 
an ideal ; it only proves its irnpracticability. And I think 
the answer to that is that we rnust rnake dernocracy  work ' 
because it is the right ideal. If democracy without educa- 
tion is hopeless, then we rnust educate, hot give up 
dernocracy. There is no ideal in the world that has 
 worked ' yet. Christianity is still only an ideal, because 
we don't believe in it enough to rnake it a fact. Justice 
and honesty don't really pay', because there are hot 
enough people who practise thern. There is very little 
idealisrn in the world so far. So far» the only thing which 
really produces idealisrn is, unfortunately» war, and the thing 
called patriotisrn. When a war breaks out» thousands of 
leisured young rnen, who have hitherto thought of little but 
of how to enjoy themselves, who have hitherto turned their 
backs on all that was unpleasant and all that provoked 
thought, suddenly discover that, though it was not  up to 
thern' to lire for their country in peace rime, yet it is 
absolutely their duty to die for it in war rime, and fling 
away their lives with heroisrn. It is» apparently, easier to 
fight for one's country than to devote one's leisure to 



248 M.G.W. May 1916 
social prob!ems. That is to me the most amazing 
thing. 
So far» with ail our civilisation we have not yet dis- 
covered an), other wa)' of expressing out idealism than 
war. Even the poets who ought to know better haven't 
got much farther. Wordsworth sa),s: «How ennobling 
thoughts depart When men change swords for Iedgers'; 
and Rupert Brooke, in his 19 I+ sonnets, seemed to welcome 
the \rar as a reIease from materialism. The arts are 
inspired b)' war, and in the pulpit it is able to be reconciled 
with Christianity» because of the great unselfish non- 
utilitarian virtues which it produces. But when the world 
is reall), democratic, perhaps peace will inspire us in the 
saine way. 
What a tt'rriL'le lecture this is that I am delivering. I 
hope you will forgive it. I always think that when a soldier 
talks politics, it is a ver)' terrible thing. And when the 
soldier is also a schoolmaster ! But this is my share in the 
very interesting conversation ),ou started ; and my interest 
in the subject mus.t be my apology. 
We are not actuall I, in the trenches at present, but we 
make frequent tedious visits to them to work b t, da), and 
night and return to a village and listen to the guns from 
a respectful distance. It is hot so lovel), a place as some 
that 1 have lately seen, and the inhabitants rather hate us. 
In fact» the lad), of this louse wanted to turn us awa), 
the first night we arrived, very late after a long march. 
The good woman still brings us absurd little complaints 
daily, and m), servant, generally the culprit, stands gravely 
to attention in the doorway» while she delivers them. AI1 
of which pleases me hugely» because it reminds me that 
the English are not the onl), selfish people. 



lI. G.W. May 1916 249 
To H/s SrST.R. st R.B. 
7"uesday _May 3% II5. 
To-morrow evening I ara giving a champagne dinner in 
honour of fie anniversary of my joining the Regiment. 
Russell-Smith is coming. The only thing is that we are 
almost certain to bave night work to do. Soit will bave to 
be apublic luncheon. Public uncl;es are always to somedy; 
soit will bave to beto me, as well as my being host. We 
shall bave mayonnaise» and I shall make a speech aut the 
Empire afterwards. At least that's what ought to happen. 
Only, we are more excrcised at plesent about getting some 
glasses to drink champagne out of and a table-cloth. 
This billet is ofthe back-kitchen variety, but we are very 
comfortable. Oh] did I tell you how when we arrived 
late at night and after some wandering round the billet, 
we round a very stout and shrieking woman throwing our 
servants and their packs and rifles out at the door; and 
how it appeared that the servants had taken possession in 
rather a noi5y t:ashion, c déposant leurs sacs et fisils' on 
the floor, and executing a song and dance at having arrived ; 
and how the song and dance woke up the man of tle laous% 
who, in siait and pants, came in and sl/outed'rtez; 
sortez', and then proceeded to give a lovtly imitation of 
the song and dance of the servantsto show how angry he 
was ? And xve all sat down in corners and on the bed and 
table, and laughed weafily. 
Finally, l:earing that there was to bc money for this, the 
host withdrew, but the woman 
Marble slab--nothing still shrieks and cornes to me 
{urtherwasdone about it. with complaints against my ser- 
vant, whom she calls celui-là'. 
in the 

Celui-là stands gravely to attention te while 
doorway, and I simt'ly expire with laughter. 



2)-o /I. G.W. May 
To C. R. N. ROUTH. I st R.B. 
Maî' 3 t» t916. 
l'm g/ad you had a jolly visit to Shrewsbury. l've been 
in some beautiful places this early summer» but all of the 
most beautiful have only reminded me of what I missed. 
l've just been seeing Buxton on his way back. It is a 
beautithl night and the trees talking quietly to one another» 
just as they do in the midd!e of the Common on evenings 
in June. And nothing to shew a VCar except an occasional 
boom and a flickering Very light. 
To H. E. E. Howso. ist R.B. 
une z, 1916. 
Last evening we had a dinner to celebrate my centenary 
of joining the Regiment (ztst of May really), and our 
C.Q:_.M.S. got me quite a decent violin from another C.S.M.» 
and at midnight. (That isn't a full stop really. The paper 
people put it there.) I was playing ' con molto sentimento' 
to the Transport ocer, in the hearing of all his horses. 
I suppose that those wild roses will be apt to be coming 
out on those fanes near Upper Edgebold and that there 
bave been blue-bells in Lyth Wood. 
Ifany Men bave corne across good reading lately» I should 
be very grateful for means of sharing it. And, pleas% a 
1/- copy of The Path would be awfully acceptable, l've 
had to scrap my Browning and other book G because or 
lightening my kit. 
I was out on a fatigue party yesterday» and it was June 
the First and there were glancing grasses. 
I have just , at ' L'attaque', after a two hours' struggle 
and some good deception» against a fellow in this Company 
who has been beating me rather often and is rather good. 
Oh Lord» I wish I was there. 
 See page 9- 



M. G.W. June 1916 
To R. A. Kox. st R.B. 
fun z, I916. 
I ara less depressed than I was» (a) on general grounds, 
(b) because there is a hutch of rame rabbits in the farmship 
in which I am living. By the way» have you got your copy 
of the illustrated catalogue of Academy Pictures for I916 ? 
That is very important. As far as I can see» there are no 
elands this year ; but there are the usual panthers. 
I wonder if you bave got a lot of my old IV. t now? 
Perhaps some Man will send me a School list. 

To HIS SISTER. I st 
v.ne 8, I916. 
1 wish I could just bave one evening with yo'a ail» to give 
you the real local colour of all this life ; the old woman 
leading in the cows by the horns» the two tired horses which 
bang their heads out of their stable windows and kick the 
doors to bc fed or let out or whatever it is they want» the 
noise a shell makes, and all that. 
It is only just over two months since I came out the 
second rime. Serious faults in this country-side are the 
lack of hedges and the comparative scarcity of wild roses. 
I gave a most successful dinner 

OUR SCIENCE CORNER. 
Does the air in an 
air-cushion go bad, if not 
renewed for a period of 
weeks ? 

Roof of Wales'» with the clouds messing 
Well, cheers, everybody. I am awfully fit. 

to celebrate my regimental birth- 
day and champagne was pro- 
cured, and I played tb.e violin 
till a late hour. 
It must be very, very good at 
T. Bay, z looking up towards  the 
about it. 

I Tre-Arddur Bay. 



21"2 ]I. G.W. June 1916" 

To E. H. L. Sova'rlwEtt.  

No. t Statement. 
Oh Man! Yes, indeed. 
Jtllle. 
How splendid of you. 

MAil o 

IVo. z Statement. 
Itis, by the way, ver), right that you should bave sent 
that glancing grass, because, just about June 6 (the date of 
),ours)» I said to myself, « I must write and tell the Man that 
there are glancing grasses and that it is June '. And ),ou 
replied to my thought. 
IV[aH o 

No. 3 Stateme»t. 
At the same time, Man, I want a letter fi-om you. Did 
you get my last» written in some depression (since c!ered 
away) ? 
Do write (it's your turn, you know), if you can. [I did, 
thank Heaven, and l:e got it. E.H.L.S. fful' t6.] \Ve 
are a little farther away from you than we were. In billets, 
working-parties at night, etc. A dirty kind of lift. 
Love from 
A Man. 

To A. E. KITCHIN. Whit-Sunday, [lllle I I1 I916. 
I am reviving my interest again in the European problem. 
Do you know» I believe that, if we win, the best solutiort 
will be almost tV..e tatu OEuo, because it would only be the 

i Who had sent him a «glancing grass'. See page 46. 



M. G.W. June 1916 2j" 3 
status gua materialiy» hot spiritua'dy. For tie Germans 
would hot be humiliated and the large better element 
among them (I don't believe it doesn't exist) would probably 
 rapI)roche " with the good elements among the Allies and 
that would be the basis for a European understanding aad 
a dctermination on all out parts to behave bctter in futur% 
seeing how little the War would bave brought to all of us. 
The greatest victory that could be won in this War would 
b% hot the particular gain of one or a few nations but the 
tragic realisation by all nations that nobody has gained 
anything ; statement ! As for « The War after the War' 
and Mr. Hughes and ail that disastrous sort of idea--what 
are we to do about it ? 
We are still behind the lin% but only a short distance 
away» sleeping and eating in daylight and working in the 
dark and generally just get out of the bullet zone as dawn 
arrives and the moon and the stars and the star-shells get 
faint. 1 bave been chiefly engaged in clearing out an old 
disus d trench» all overgrown with grass and marked by 
shell-holes of some old battle ofa year ag% I should think  
fuil of old refuse pits and wct spiders' webs and generally 
rather a creepy unpleasant place. One expects to see the 
ghosts ofFrench soldiers as one turns a corner. But the 
star-shells of the Bosches zoo yards in front keep one to 
realities. 
1 am longing for more news from Shrewsbury. 

To H. ST. L. B. Moss. st Battalion The Ri.fie Brigade 
France. 
Fhit-S«nday, :ne x I, 
This is I ara rather ashamed to think an answer to 
your excellent letter, written to me on Match M-» wl:en you 



'4 lxl. G.W. June rgr6 
were staying with the Huntingfords near Faringdon, Did 
I know it you said ? I do--a wonderful country, It is 
a good country» that. (tu»e z4, ) And it was something 
like that that I thought ofwhen I lay down last night» and 
under the tent flap looked at a wonderful sky in the North- 
West and thought of ail the dear things and people that 
are under 
We had rather an impressive Church Parade Service 
this morning. I always find Church Parade a very moving 
aiT-air. At the saine rime it scems awfully odd reconciling 
ail this with Christianity; almost using Christianity as a 
weapon, For while the Church out ber% to ail appearances 
makes an appeal to the individual soul yet it is felt by ail 
to be an item in the training» and everything is ruade 
c approp6ate ' ; all the most warlike similes of St, Paul are 
ruade to apply, and  Fight the good Fight ' is of a certainty 
this Fight against the Bosches» and little else, 
tuze z, lndeed the most tragic thing about war is that 
one has to make a new morality» compatible with it» and to 
alter ail standards of right and wrong, And it is a great 
thing to have instituted the Conscientious Objector, Never 
mind whether he is ofthe sincere kind or hot, We bave» 
by that clause in the Act» recognised that the individual 
conscience is supreme, If shirkers bave taken shelter nder 
it» I don't worry a.bout them very mucb,, 
This morning I have been reading some remarkable poems 
by C, H, Sorley» who was at the King's Choir School when 
I was up there» and aftelavards at Marlborough and was 
killed last Autumn, You ouglt to see them published by 
the Cambridge University Prcss. 
WelI I think I must stop because () you won't be able 
to read what I hve written already» (z) the post goes rather 
soon» (3) 1 don't know what I should write about fuloEher, 



M. G.W. June 96 2yf 
Active service makes me full of ideas» but incaptble of 
expression. 
Have you been writing anything» prose or verse, lately ? 
Do carry out the c Shrewsbury Epic" idea, which you once 
suggested. The hunger for Shrewsbury this June is almost 
intolerable. 
Now I must say good-bye. 

To J. O. WHITFIELD. Ist R.B. 
une I, I916. 
There is very little to write about. Ail this news is so 
hideous from our own personal points of view» but thank 
Heaven» with it all» we seem to be nearer victory. 
Well, Man» 1 sometimes think of you at 4.o on Sundays» 
and there are  glancing grasses" here, to remind me of 
Franklin's fields * in June. 

To ms SISTER /ND BROTHERS. 1st R.B. 
yu»e z7, x916. 
It's possible that mails will be interrupted a bit in the 
future. S% if you do not hear from me» I want you hot to 
be unnecessarily anxious about me. There is nothing I can 
tell you, except that I ara happy and very fit. The weather is 
fresh and the wind in the West and itis beautiful weather 
except for camping. For every now and then cornes a 
heavy downpour. But there is much in the freshness ofthis 
brushwood patch where we are bivouacked» to remind me 
of the bill at the back of the Chapel Hous%  and the Mere 
Cottage garden and ofyour own dear selves. Meanwhile 
not far away, a heavy bombardment is going on. 

 See page 46.  At Capel Curig. 



2-6 M.G.W. June 

To C. A. AL1NGTON.  tuze OE7, 9 6" 
I have had a good deal of news ofthe best of places lately. 
Good news of that glorious Malvern Match, of the Corps 
Inspection, but also of Leslie Woodroft-e's x death. I could 
never bave thought that they would senti him out again. 
He was so very much a part ofthe place, and is still. Do 
you think that w¢ all continue to bave out part in the place 
after death, even when hot remembered ? I ara very jealous 
of mine ; and though I know such an article of faith is 
called animism or some such horrible naine, t, et I cling to 
the idea of becoming, after death, more completely a part of 
Shrewsbury than when I was an unworthy, active member 
ofthe community ; hot by what l've done there, but by how 
much I bave loved it. 
Itis inevitable, just at present, that we should tlfink such 
things, and impossible, at present, for me to express them 
legibly or intelligibly. I expect Leslie Woodroffe thought 
something of the saine sort, but I expect also that he met 
death easily ; for I think he trained himself to self-sacrifice. 
Oh! I meant to say that there are rive officers in this 
Company, and three of us are quoting The 14Zrong Box pretty 
frequently, much to the annoyance of the other two. 

To E. H. L. SOUTHWELL. ISt R.B. 
une z7, x9x6. 
Oh Man, I can't write now. I ara too like a coach belote 
the 13umping Races or Challenge Oars. 
So, Man, good luck. 
Our NEw Hotssr. and Shrewsbury are immortal, which is 
a great comfort. 

*See page 194. 



M. G. \V. 
Ireland 
August, 9 



M. G.W. June 1916 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. st R.B. 
une z9, i916. 
There is a big attack coming o1 very shortly» and we are 
in it. And there is just a minute to scribble a line to you» 
with my love and grceting. We ail hope it will be a success 
though it will be a difficult business, I ana sure. Our job 
will be to take the front system of trenches in this area. 
Man, I can't write a lctter. There is much to think, but 
nothing to say» really. 

To ms FaMILV AND FRIENnS, st R.B. 
une z9, 19 x 
I date say this will hot rcach you, but I bave asked a friend 
to scnd it for me when censorship does not apply any longer. 
We are taking part in a big attack, and I go up to the 
trenches this afternoon and shall not be able to write agaia 
beeen now and the beginning of it. Ail hope that ts 
attack will bring us a little nearer the end of the War. 
There is little doubt that it will be a dicult business, but 
we hope for success after the bombardment that is going on. 
Our business is to take the front system ofGerman trenches 
in the area we are in. 
And now, I just want to say to you all, that, if I don't 
corne through it, you must ail be quite cheerful about it. I 
ara quite happy about it, though of course 1 can't deny that 
I ara very keen to corne honae again. I look at ail this from 
a very personal point of view» almost a selfish point ofview. 
It seems to me that, if I die in this action, it gives me a 
great, simple chance of making up for a lot of selfishneses 
in the past. A nd when I want to reconcile myself to the 
idea of hot coming back again I just think of all those 
* He was killed two days later. 



2-8 M.G.W. June 96 
scIfish mistakes l've ruade» and I ara almost glad of the 
opportunity to put them right. That's my view of it. It 
is not priggish--I hope it doesn't sound like that. 
It is also a great comfort to think of you all going on, 
!iving the saine happy lives that we havc led together, and 
of the new generation coming into it 
I can't write more. My dcarcst love to you ail. 
I ara vcry fit. 



CHAPTER VIII 

E. H. L. S. 

JtlLV TO SEPTEMBER 1916 

THOUGH he had bcen anxious about Whitc for ten days, it 
was hot till July t 3 that Southwell hcard thc ncws that he 
was missing. For anothcr çortnight he was in the saine 
part of the linc as beforc, and then, on the OETth, the 
Battalion leçt Sombrin, and was at test behind the line 
at the beginning of August. For thc last thrce weeks of 
thc month they cntered t the land oç the Push', and were 
engaged in holding on to captured trcnches, though they 
took no part in any organised attack. On Scptember t 
Southwell spcaks oç the Battalion as back at test hot £ar 
from Abbevillc ; and during this period he was ruade 
«O.C. Entertainments', and organised football £or the 
His Company Commander was -way on leave, but re- 
turned on Septembcr o. On the xth the Battalion 
returned to the line, and took part in a big attack. South- 
well was far in advance of lais men, when a sniper hit him, 
near Delville Wood. He was killed instantaneously. 
These are lettcrs written about him. 
From onc who kncw him intimatcly throughout his 
lire : 
« His « philosophy of lire" was very real, and profound 
in its depth. It was characteristically empirical, and hot 



26o E.H.L.S. 

traditional» iii its metkod. He worked it out for himself. 
Never would he move a step farther than he could se% in 
his search after truth. It was always, I believe, theistic. 
Long betbre the end it became definitely and deliberately 
Christian. 13oth the Chaplains at the Front wrote to say 
he never missed a Church Parade or Celebration of Holy 
Communion» unless his military duties made lais presence 
impossible. One of the Chaplains adds that he did this 
largely for the sake of others» and hot merely for his own 
sake. The same Chaplain states that it was by his influence 
that his servant was brought to Confirmation.  VVhatever 
were the fundamental principles of his philosophy of lif% 
one thing is certain i he had caught, as if by intuition 
visions which «we are striving all 6ur life to find". 
« His love of Nature was pathetic in its intensity. It 
was God's world to him. Xghenever he went to a new 
district, he used to explore the locality and « interpret" it 
in relation (by way of comparison or contrast) to familiar 
places at home. He drank it all i11 with his whole soul as 
a Revelation of life. 
 Akin to his love of Nature was lais devotion to 
two tbrms of art, music and architecture: with regard to 
the latter, lais description of any new billet was always by 
reference to « the most wonderful Cathedral in France'" 
or « tke picturesque little village Church "" This form of 
art» like that of music» seemed to be part of lais religious 
lift. 
 His unttinching devotion to dut), was another marked 
feature of his character. Wl:en once he had made up 
his mind what it was his duty to d% he did it at what- 
ever cost to himself as vell as to others. It was often 
obvious that» if any such decision hurt others, it hurt him 
much more. 



E. H. L. S. 

 His dcvotion to othcrs was possibiy thc most marked 
trait in his lire. He loved thcm (albcit with a disciminat- 
ing love) as lais own soul» and was delighted» in lais simple- 
minded way when hc saw their hearts' response to his 
appeal. 
« Finally» thcre was his exquisite simplicity. Ho 
rcmained « a child" in temper and spirit to the very end. 
Of him it could be truly said» " Behold an Israelite indeed 
in whom is no grille ".' 

From an oflicer of his Company :q 
'While lac was with us, ho was always chcerfifl, and a 
great factor in the happiness of the Battalion. As well, he 
was a very efficient office,', and shewed great kecnness. I 
really think that he liked soldicring ; at any rate, I know he 
was very happy while he was with us." 

From another fellow-oflïcer :-- 
' I have been in your son's Company since he took over 
the Company in thc beginning of the year, and of course 
I knew him well in thc earlier days after the -_th of 
Scptember. We all loved him, officcrs and men, and he 
was entirely tmselfish. The Company» under his command, 
ran srnoothly, and he took an immense amount of trouble 
over it. The first experience we had of this push, though 
hot so disastrous from the casualty point of view, was fiar 
more unpleasant, and all througl he was lnagnificent. If 
he knew what fear was, he never shewcd it. I have already 
said that everybody loved himthe mcn would bave gone 
anywhere with him. He was lcading them with his usual 
calmncss to the end. I cannot tell you how great the loss 
is to us the few of us who arc left. Those of us who have 
been through many things, pleasant and unpleasant, will 
ncvcr forget him." 



-_6z E.H.L.S. 

From a Tutor of Magdalen :-- 
 I can hardly bear to write ; yet, in a sense, I have bcen 
expecting the news. Do you remember the da),, long ago 
as it seems, when Magdalen lost the Headship, and the 
crew came back to the barge spiritless and cowed--all but 
lac ! Ever since I knew that he had gone out, l have felt that 
the gallant spirit which refused to accept defeat on the river 
would carry him fearlessly through this greatcr struggle, but 
only too likely to the death that I sometimes fancied he wouId 
almost bave desired--the death most worthy of him. 
' Nothing, I think, in all my life as a teacher, has given 
me greater pleasure tban to hear from A]ington, as I often 
did, of the great work he was doing at Shrewsbury. Only 
a few weeks ago he was telling me about it. But 1 know 
also, from what he said and part]y from a ]ctter he shewed 
me, that in the trenches be had tbund himself as perhaps 
le never had before. 
 I think w« must not grieve for him. It was a great life, 
full of force and vigour and enjoyment, nobly laid down ; 
and tl:e memory ofit will romain with some of us to the ]ast. 
« I should not be surprised to know that these last months 
were to him the happiest of all. But there will be many 
sore hearts to-day among Magdalen men, and for myself I 
feel that a light bas gone out of my lire.' 

This poem was first printed in The Salopia» :-- 

LAUDATORI OPTIMO. 

E. H. L. S. 

Players before an empty bouse 
October's pageants go, 
That now no plaudits can arouse 
From you, who lovcd them so. 



E. H. L.S. july 1916 

13y you unheeded, as of old 
Thc tyrant autumn brceze 
Vill strew our payements with thc gold 
It plunders from the trecs: 

Unmarked by you the swallows' flights, 
Cloud-shapes, and chinmcy ttmcs, 
And fl'iendly blaze of schoolroom lights 
On mist-wreathed afternoons. 

There is no light on hill or plain, 
No sigh of wind or wood 
13ut sccms as if it watchcd in vain 
To hcar your t Man that's good 

But where on some uncharted shore 
Fearlessly you look down 
A nearcr pilgrim than beforc 
To that Eternal Town, 

How ),ou must cry aloud in praisc! 
God send OllC echo through» 
To cheer the dull and dusty days 
That sunder us from you. 

The last letters follow : 

263 

LETTERS 

To Hs MOTHER. B.E.F. 
ul 9' Iz} I916". 
White is killed I suppose. Anyhow l've a letter from 
Bailey of Shrewsbury and the New Hous% saying  You 
will bave heard by now' (I hadn't)  that the thing.., bas 
happened '. He goes on to say he may be a prisoner ; from 
which I infer he is reported missing and do not hold any 
hopes of that kind for we had heard that his Battalion was 



264 E.H.L.S. july i916 
very badly cut up. He was my greatest friend, and loved 
Shrewsbury. The last letter he wrote me was just belote 
the push, and he said, among othcr things, « Anyhow, 
Shrevsbury and our lire at the New House are immortal ; 
that's one comfort.' I darc say it shews terrible selfishness, 
but I havc faced the casualty list daily without a tremor for 
two ycars now, and now, when I am hard hit myself, I cry 
out ! Mure, he was sz«h a dear ; he was so keen on every- 
thing, and the most truc ' a tist', in the full sense» that I have 
ever known. 
This month, or whatevcr itis (no, it's a bare fbrtnight, 
isn't it ?)» has opcncd my cyes to thc lot of those who sit 
and wait, as I bave bcen doing sincc the push startcd. For 
goodncss' sake, don't Ict his one casc makc you think you 
bave auy more reason than beçorc to be anxious about my 
miscrable safetywhat diffizrence can o»e examplc, hou ever 
near home, makc to the probabilities of good or evil fortune 
in one more among millions ? But I can symp.tthise with 
you, who are good enough (!) to be anxious about me, better 
now. Yet do please realise that ont t?iend's dcath does not 
increase my risk or chances» any morc than it dirninishes it ; 
you must hot let it make you worry about it. 
But I cannot bc very happy, cven though I did write, just 
befo:'e he dicd, io say ' NOTH¢ matters to you or me ; 
we'rc both ail right, in the right place, and wc know it '. I " 
still think I spoke the truth ; or pray that I may really believe 
it. War is a terrible thing, cspecially latcly, as ail of us 

To HIS SISTE. B.E.F. 
uly I, I916. 
So you are at Bapton, are you ? I wonder if the weather 
is what you expecteddo you remember, in Bleak House, 



E. H. L. 5. July 96 26- 

that terrible bit beginning  It is raining iii the place in 
Lincolnshire' where you seem to gct drenched only to 
rcad ? One day» perhaps» Fil try and scnd you the nlmes or 
somc friends there--gates in the meadows, and--ah well, 
l'Il do that later, I hope. 
You know I have heard M. White is missing» don't you ? 
It is very» very sad for me, and perhaps even worse for the 
New House people, stil[ at Shrewsbury, which he loved so 
tremendously. 

To R. F. BaILE. 

Thank you very much for what it is only truc to call your 
dear lctter. The little message flore the Man» as well as 
some hints of my own» will shew you I knew the possibility 
of such ncws was always t'.ere--but does that help ? Keep 
his letter Phiz» after you and the Man bave read and re-read 
the last lines. It bclongs to the New Housc surely and I 
might lose it from my luggagc. The allusions to a letter 
of mine I can explain later» if necessary ; they refkr to an 
expression of points of view about Summer and War (I 
think) whose only intcrest can bc that the Man seems to 
have agreed with them- but his approval seems» somehow, 
to make them bclong to you as wcll ; and ont day I shall 
fecl as though disloyal» if I don't repcat them. 
Phiz» will you understand» when 1 say that I ara uttcrly 
without an attitude» about our Man ? I mean that» whtn 
one writes letters to peoplc who havc lost their sons shall 
ve say one writes» I think» purely as a civilian, and with a 
quite honest mingling of congratulation and pridc in one's 
sympathy ; and this is hot hypocrisy» because onc does feel 



2 E.H.L.S. July I 
definitely under an obligation and should be gratefifl, and 
one is, I think, a little better in some real sensen 
 Sanguis Martyrum semen Ec!esiae '. 
And (you will tbrgive me for talking so cntirely about my 
own feelings, but what else is there ? And you encouraged 
me, thank God)surely never more than now I sl:ould feel 
that ; yet I an not man enough. Nor» I think ara I making 
a silly mistake in regretting a missing attitude, nor doing 
anything irrelevant and « posing "- for one does wish toface 
some way or other, and hot be caught on cither flank by the 
cvil days. It is only what poor \Vilde said in De 
about thc trees being all right because they wete 
e.pressio». Ah yes, Phiz» that is it; and what if },ou do 
not grasp anything to express? Ara I to go on ? Good. 
\Vell» so I tried the other extreme  suggestcd to mysclf 
that, while I could write to other bereaved peopl% 1 was this 
time completely knocked out. But no, Phiz 
either: certainly it must be iXro! (And yet,...) Then, 
I think, I rebounded from that, and thought of many brave 
men, and said I must be stout-hearted :  The Man is dead : 
carry on." At which I mercly turned, and laughcd aloud 
at my loncly sdf for a fool : for that's ail out of a ook, and 
I don't truly feel it. I did think» howcvcr of just trying to 
express a little more by saying a little less: suppose I just 
wrote  CIEDO ' on a sheet, and posted it to you. Rather a 
tremendous claire, tlough» I thought» considcring. There 
will be those (yot,, I believ% for one) who çould make it 
without a tremor: somehow I feel it is too much for me, 
o»paper ; though I tcll myselfhourly it is truc» alone. \Vas 
I not almost passionately invoking Hdj and ail the Saints 
in the calendar aloud» in the trench» just rive minutes before 
your news came? Let us leave ît at that. Crdo quia 



E. H. L.S. july i916 
impossibile , sometimes ; but ' Credo , notwithstanding  
And that, surely, is ½ pages too much, all about my 
feelings" and not a word for the New House. But don't 
think, either you or the Man, that I haven't had you in my 
mind every moment. That is a great saying of out Man's 
in the Ictter he sent me ; vcry typical, because he had such 
an enormous influence on the New House always, dating 
flore old Broadlands days, and, of ail that, he writes as onc 
quite unaware ! I doubt whcther any man was loved quite 
in the saine sort of way as ours, or had such a colossal eèct, 
with so entire an absence of claiming it, on the peoplc ho 
livcd with. That is why I find it so hard to send you and 
thc Man the sort of symp:thy I would give years of my lift 
to send: as well argue with the church over tl«e way that, 
whatever its foundation may now loo like (!), it is really 
doing very well. 
I will try and write again, and to the Man" tbrgive this 
lamest of letters (from ' trenches ' theoretically, but--for a 
bitreserve Company ; so wc have more chances ofwriting 
and more facilities in many ways), which I fear leads 
nowhere, but just stumbks aout. Tell the Man and your- 
self that I love you vcry dearly : it is quite true, Godnows : 
I cannot sec anything else worth saying : but that, 1 believe, 
is ; and I think our Man would bave wishd it : and I think 
he knows I ara hot lying! 

To R. A. Kvox. B.E.F. 
• .My 6, 96. 
Thank you ever so much tbr your wonderfully good letter. 
It was hOt till to-day (it came yesterday) that 1 realised how 
good it was ; at first 1 read it, like Phiz's, with a sort of 
blank stupidity» and only after reading them both many, 
many rimes did 1 see how splendid they both were. 



E. H. L.S. July 96 

Ronnie, it is vcry terrible ; more s% I think, than ycster- 
day. There is a curious method by which one pushes aside 
somc feelings th:t gct in the way (ordinary second-ratc sort 
of avcrsions 1 mean ; as to unpleasant sights» for instance) 
with an almost physical sense of effort which becomes hall 
mchanical ; (] s:y second-rate aversions» for I do not date 
to comc ner saying that I shift hcavier visitations in the 
samc w:y :) and so it was, pedaps, that I got bchind that 
sort of caIlousness, or tried t% for a few hours. But just as 
it is a kind of effort» so it lives ; cst;ecially when onc is hOt 
moving about and being busy. And I don't know that it is 
much of a shclter worth trying, anyway. One is alone» 
terribly :lonc, without thc Man (oç whom you» most 
surtEL...). Yet 1 find Hcrbcrt Garton tremendously 
comforting : one of the bcst of mcn. 

To H. E. E. Howso. B.E.F. 
)«/y 16, 96. 
If I could writc the sort of lctter which I know I ought to 
try and send you, I should be the happiest man alive, in 
spire of everything. For it seems, somehow, that you must 
be in the ver), centre of the pain that goes with every word 
of thc news; since to bc in the New House all the time 
without out Man... And yct» I don't know ; for only to- 
day I wrote to Ronnie, and wishcd ail the rime that I could 
imve the chancc oç giving a, ll I possesscd fo:" one day with 
you» and Phiz, and him. 
Man, hc was in very good fbrm» our Man. Look at this.  
It "s in answer to a sheet of C. z 12. I with ' Man: ($ender's 
num[er) 9/) : ) rUI'E 1916 : 3lan" written on it ; encloscd 
  glancing griss '. I send the answer or answers : it seems 

 The letrer on page z  z. 



E. H. 1_. S. july 1916 269 
to havc pleased hina. Oh yes» he was in very good forna ; 
and itis ail the better for the fact that, a month before, he 
had been a little bit deprcssed, owing to a (very typical) 
tkeling that he was being less conapetent than he might. 
 Since clearcd away,' you see ; that is very good. 
I dare say you saw my Ictttr to Phiz. I don't think, 
Man, that it will be clcver to try and belittle thc calamity. 
One wondels» sometinaes, whcther the ' Loss is conanaon to 
the race' attitude is any good» and I ana pretty surc it isn't. 
Too naany priceless things bave happened ever since Broad- 
lands; and to pretend to drop {even to the snaall degrec 
which might be possiblc) this mcmory» is surely a loss 
rathcr than a gain. Thcre was ncvcr a man really like ours, 
and I think the answer naust be : "So much the botter for 
thc mon that owned hina; still bettcr, the naore tey rc- 
naember.' 
Oh Man dear» I am sticking down ail this philosophy» and 
I do hope it's ail right : I try to otter so»etbing» for what it "s 
worth, and please don't be angry ifthe ring is a bit hollow : 
the tune is a bit shaky but it is the right tune ; ofthat I ana 
SUl'2. What you want is a great strong naan, with a faith 
like the fbundations of ail the hills; and if I» evidcntl, 
Hcaven knows, ana not fit to kiss the feet of such a naan as 
that» nauch less to bc thc kind of rem support I would givc 
everything to ke, yct I thank God ail day and every day that, 
ifever two mea answered that description, I belicve they arc 
in that house with you now. Do lct them talk about thc 
Man» and what they really think is the cxplanation of it ail ; 
if I were to bc shot to-morrow» I would leave you that as nay 
very last nacssagc. You mustn't tr, and carry it offalone : 
I know what that's like. Dear nae, Man, a havy letter ; 1 
almost wondcr ifthe Man's snailing over my shoulder. Se 
clumsy and so volub!e, isn't it ? But not wrong, Man ; no. 



,-70 E.H.L.S. july ,, 

"Fo HIS FaTHER. B.E.F. 
.ïuly z% I 916. 
Reccivcd the casualty liit. Yes» it is M. G. White, I ara 
afraid. I like to think of him» as 13rowning did of Abt 
Vogler; say that his million ideas of musi% poetry, teach- 
ing friendship are now uttcrly satisfied- and it seems at 
lcast mistaken to grieve r him too much. 
Ah mc but I was ncarly saying it is a cruel world. 
What a wonderthl thing tlae fiaith must b% when it is able 
to kccp one absolutely proef against cverything I some- 
rimes think that in the Divine Arithmeti G  and i do hot 
make z. I mean that one is apt to look at the tragedies of 
the XVar and say  This and this» and thishow awfd  ' 
•  
vhile ail thc while it may hot be more awful for anybody, 
God included, for twenty myriads offamilics to be bercaved 
than for one ; it is at lcast arguable that no 0»e famy suflèrs 
mot% and perhaps even» it suffers less by the thought that 
others too need comfort. I do not know but I try my 
little hardest to believe. 
It is dark and  He is a God that hideth Himself' ; but 
a man may walk when he cannot sec lais hand in front of 
his faceand arrive after ail  It is hOt only in thc trenches 
I expcct that there is snch a thing as the great  Stand 
Dovn' and the Great Dawning  

To HIS IIOTHER. B.E.F. 
uly zç, 1916. 
I could hot possibly do anything but send him* a copy of 
Rupert Brooke's Poems» called  I9I+'  because there are 
poems about the soldier which seem to me to hit perhaps 

i His father. 



E. H. L.S. August 1916 271 
the very highest note that has ever been struck during the 
War. No one who bas hot been here knows, [ think, how 
difficult those tremendous ideals are but is thc bctter» I 
think» out here for reading them. The only thing I ara 
anxious about is lest I may bave given somc one a copy 
bctbre, at home. 
You will, in any case, know the one that spcaks o'his lire 
aftcr dcath ; but I think ç Safcty' is tke greatcst thing of thc 
War. I have just been rt'adingit agai, in Garto,'s copy, 
and was enormously imprcssed. 

To J. O. WHITFIELDo B.E._. 
lug. ,_,  9  6. 
That was surcly a very fine» and if I may say so, a vcry 
brave ferrer. I think you hardly understood xvhat I rotant» 
though. It can best bc explaincd by pointing out that there 
is a deal of diffcrence bctwccn inability to fccl one and thc 
other of two propositions  Carry on ' ; and  The Man is 
dead : Carry on.' The first is being done ; the second has 
a sort of brilliant ring about it which» if attainabl% would 
be rathcr fun, but happens to be entirely lbreign. \Vhat I 
really meant was what I callcd absence of attitude a'.togethcr: 
one plods along, hOt particu!arly hearty and hOt particularly 
sensitive; for somc at least of onc's cmotions here die 
easily: after a month and a hall in the line, with a period 
out in the supports» one bccomes rather a low order ofbeing 
I mean ail but the good men do. We are now no great 
distance from the Man, if you understa»d; and life above 
ground has been very good for some days" we are « secing 
the light' (in a scnsc no Grcek ever guesscd), and a vcry 
delightful change that is. Thcre is actually a bathing-placc 
in this village, all'd after thc enormous heat of the day a 
bathe is very good. 



2 7 2 E.H.L.S. A ugust , 9,6 
To C. A. Ar.NaTON. B.E.F. 
Aug. z I916. 
\¥ell we are resting at the naoment in a village : and very 
attractive it is after sevcral wceks oflife in or just behind 
the line. Any more definite allusion to our place is of 
cours% out ofthe question except that M. G. W.'s district 
is hOt ver), far  though I don't really l, now even now within 
many miles wh«re that is. You no doubt understand? 
Meanwhil% everything is very good : we marchcd a few 
toiles before breakfast by way of getting a bit of air into 
out lungs betbre the heat ; then I worked on a machine gun 
for some lmurs, and actually had a bathe to-night. 
And so the terre is over, and I know---how well !what 
that last wcek has been like. I suppose they came round, 
as they always do, to say good-by% though with more regret 
than everalas [when tl:ey came to you ; and there would 
be the last Sunday evening Chapel and your address • ([ 
await it cagerly) ; and the almost conscious look of  Good- 
bye' on the face of the Breiddens = which (even before I 
came away) used to send one's heart into one's mouth ; and 
some of us would be tlfinking how we paced the School 
Yard, years ag% on just such a Summer night ; and the 
younger amongst us would be wondering how the place 
could carry on during another year» when this and that place 
was emptyhaving hot learnt yet from experience that a 
school is the only immortal thing on earth and the only 
thing about which ail the platitudes are true and ail the 
longings undying. 
It is not like that in the Armyat least, I think, not to 
the saine extent. Not but that the number of adorable days 
  A Conversation': published in Stçew, bury Fable,. 
 The Welsh hills nearest to Shrewsbury. 



E. H. L.S. August I9I 273 
here is hot incalculable; but it is hot quite the saine 
story .... 
Well, well» this had better go now. Let me have ),out 
address in Chapcl, won't you? Later on, perhaps, I will 
send ),ou some news, should thcre bc any. At present we 
are happ), enough in this existence, wondcring a little» but 
gcnerally too tired and contented for more than wonder ; 
and, perhaps luckily, we are not allowed too much time for 
that, cither. In fact, now I corne to think of it, I doubt if 
l've donc any of that for somc timc now. |t seems a trifle 
futile, considering how vcry little therc is to bc wondered 
at, and how man), bcttcr men havc contrived to gct through 
with no wondering at all. But I would likc to sce ),our 
address, ail the saine. 

To H. E. E. Howsorr. B.E.F. 
_/lt«g. 6, 916. 
lncredibly good concert in the orchard last night. One 
Baynes (latc C.U.B.C.; he rowcd against me) is now our 
ii¢I.O., and vcry remarkablc hc is : he is one of thosc men 
who sing likc birds, and swim, and dive (WtTta somersaults)» 
and do a lot of shoutitag, and arc very good, in fine. You 
should bave eard him take 300 mcn c',ean off thcir feet 
with  Songs of Araby" last night ; an old, old fricnd, of 
course, but I never saw it so etective. Nor any one so 
priceless as the modern R.F.C. man: he is perfectly 
immaculate, salures ail officers, and drills like a guards- 
man. He was much in request at the concert. 
Oh Man, The Path is al.ways in my valise ; and I read 
hot only the tale of Tl.,e Emilla l¢oeay ([ seem to bave known 
ont or two such'.), but also thc story which tells how 
' Youth came up that valley at evening, borne uFort t 
southern air'. 1 know what that rneans ; it seerr.s to make 



274 E.H.L.S. August  9 6 

more .fl'cqucnt visits in these latter days. It is the best 
book in thc wor]d, and has bcen read by (I think) nine 
occrs, in more than ont Battalion, since I got it from you. 
I must stop now, Man dcar, as time is rathcr short bcforc 
prade. You will understand» this lcavcs me vcry wcll, 
thinking cvcrlastingly or" thc place we and thc Man all 
]oved» praying (as C. A. A. would say) for the peace of 
our Jerusalcm» and in no way so vaery far removed» 1 think 
rioto our Man himsclf. Yet hot defi¢itely vcry ncar» either. 

To H. E. WALKER. B.E.F. 
_//ug. g, 1916. 
By thc way, Tloe Four _alez, you know! \Vcll, I'm not 
going to launch forth into a tirade about it ; but an oftqccr 
of the 6oth told me yestcrday that he likcd it enormously, 
and more than Tb.e Patl to Rome. It is awfully good, but 
hot, I think, quite such a great atïfair. I mention it, because 
I have an idea it was about in your rime in V. B that the 
rage for Belloc beganmy rage, I mean ; for, no doubt, 
those who knew him round out all about him long ago. 
I will not weary you with any laments over }.If. \Vhite : 
you know well enough what it nmst mcan to me and ail of 
us. It was indecd a shock, though, coming so soon after the 
news of Mr. WoodrotTe, who, besides being I suppose one 
of the best men in ail the R.B. and in one of its most 
celebrated families, was partly responsible tbr my joining 
it, and in rather a spccial way seemed to have an enormous 
daim on my gratitude. 
Meanwhile we are sitting, not actually in the trenches, 
but 'somewhere', and awaiting orders, behind. The 
weather is glorious ; so is your Icttcr  so are you, and 1 
would give anytlfing to sec you ; so is France; and so I 



IL. H. L.S. A ugust 1916 27)" 

think is thc wholc look of al-}irs in general (whcn one is 
able to look at it in the right way, and hot grumble at the 
price when the casualty lists corne out); and in a word» l 
ara very happy, and would like you to think so ! 

To HIS SISTER. B.E.F. 
./lug. Io» I916. 
Meanwhilc, thcrc is your poem. \Vhich, let me say at 
once, I quitc definitely like ; it scems to me (I) to be truc, 
which is lnore than you can say for somc poctry. I nlcall 
th.t this is just what right-mindcd pcoplc do, and ought to, 
fiel whcn (as I at thc nomcnt) thcy are near a livr. 
think (oE) the metreis thc right Icngth. I mcan: it obviously 
ought to bc short» as yours is. To writc in tcn-syllable 
lincs, in thc cightecnth-ceatury manncr, is to givc up the 
gaine, or forty points of it, befo'.'c you start. 
h'm, well, yes. A pedant would growl ovcr ' cause' and 
' yours', because of thc ' r'. I know ont man who always 
fumes at that, bccausc ho s:tys you arc making it ' caur-r-sc ". 
Otl:erwise thcy'rc ail right, arcn't thcy ? (+) \Vords ; I say, 
uot 'gladness and joy', because this I + I = O, rathcr, 
doesn't it ? ' lt's ail right in the wintcr rime ' (as thc song 
doesn't sa),) in thc good old carol, bccause it "s quaint : hcrc 
it's either nothing, or a quotation ; and thcr% that's pulled 
thc bits of your pocm out for inspcction, but now cornes thc 
re-reading as a complete toem, and that's the rcal tcst ; 
and if it means the Brook» as do Tcnnyson's and Kingslcy's 
efforts in thc samc linc, surcly it's a p..)cm worth writing. 
And to me» it does mcan thc Brook, and thcrc you arc. 
This is rathcr a long criticism : is it thc sort of thing you 
wanted, I wondcr? Oh, I say, there's only one more 
thing, and t]:at is whcther you could bave ruade it a little 
more jtt the e»e brook you've got your cye on. This covers 
T x 



276 E.H.L.S. August 1916 
ail brooks, and perhaps that's better ; but my own opinion, 
if you want it, is that, if you'd pinned it down fast to one 
brook, with two wee lines» only, to make it stand out, it 
would havc ruade it even more vivid. Yct, as l've already 
said, it does bring out the brook very, very clearly, even 
as it is. Dear me, this is too long, and I must get to 
business. 

To lqs FATHER. B.E.F. 
.//llg. I I: I9IŒEE. 
This morning I was alone ; so I went along the river 
bank, and ruade a h;ghly importa»t dlscovery, which is that 
the F.S. Post Ca,d makes a capital aoat in skilful hands like 
yours or mine. I put one afloat this moming, within 
twcnty yards of a huge artillery camp on the bank, but hOt 
in the least abashed by tl:e watchful eyes of one or two 
inquisitive gunners at their case on the bank. I put her 
well out, and with a poke from a stick o she went. All 
went wcll (this was a rery important voyage, and you must 
forgive me if I dwell on it rather lengthity) for quite a long 
time; it was necessary to throw one big stone into a 
shallow, to prevent ber coming to rest much too soon. 
And there was a certain home-sick look about her (perhaps 
she caught it fi-om her designer), which was a little too apt 
to make ner aire at unexpectcd little harbours on the way 
down. With this exception, however, she did well, and it 
was no fault of hers that she did go right down to join 
the  Oh dear, here's the Censor again ; one can't 
even run one's private navigation without being careful. 
What stopped her, after what wou!d bave bcen at Bapton a 
very good run of some htmdreds of fect, was a regular forest 
ofthick weeds on a corner, into which she not on!)" butted, 
and waited some rime, but actually slid right into a little 



wave, which 
later. And 
fully cxpect. 
Yes, that 
Cmiously it 

E. H. L.S. August I916 

!77 

opened a passage for her, and closed hcr in 
thcre she lies, and will lie for a long timc, as I 
Not a bad trip, though, by any mcans. 
is right" /. IXpqxv¢re «; rv " 
is thGfar casicr in a less easy pcriod than in 

what we call a ' cushy" onc. In thc Ypres days ' twenty- 
four hours out ' was a tlfing to look forward to, and down 
in out last place a ,week out secmed short ! So I fully hopc 
it will be, hcre: in tact, I know it is so. One says to 
onesclf that it is silly even to thi»k of anything tmplcasant 
till we gct to So-and-so at the carlicst, and there onc stops  
at least, I think so. 

To HIS MOTHER. B.E.F. 
//ug. I4, 1916. 
This will reach you too late to be a proper birthday 
lctter. I had hopcd to writc two days ago, but it couldn't 
be done. But, at any rate, let roc now scnd all my vcry 
best love and prayers, and wish you man I happ), retur of 
the day. 
I think, ifit must once be granted that I ara to be away 
at all, you would agree that this, of ail places on earth, is 
the most wondcrful for me to be in. I must hOt, I suppose, 
describe it at al/yet, though a bit later I see no reason why 
at least a general outline, without names, should hOt be 
given of what to me has been the most incredibly beautififl 
and thrilling thing I have ever seen on earth. 
We are hOt in the line as I write. I ara sitting on an 
inverted biscuit tin (my bath !), and what I see looks rather 
like the Great Orme's Head on a crowded day. Ah, it is 
wonderfifl, wonderful ; everything that one had dreamed of. 
• . . \Vell, I will tell you more about it later. Meanwhile, 



z78 E.H.L.S. August i916 
there is no doubt 1 ara portentous]y pleased with evtry- 
thing I ste and .hear (if you understand), and highly fit 
and happy. 

To MRs. RF.ID. B.E.F. 
../lltg. I Ji.  1916. 
This littlc linc I hae meant to write for a very long 
timc, and now that Capt. Wihner has your address to 
givc m% as I have just found I will write at once ; only 
saying that neither that nor any other cxcuse (such as our 
occupations fol instancc) is really any rcason, I fear, for 
my delay. 
Schoolmasters are nanow-minded crcatures, I ana told 
(be wasn't !) and this» perhaps» explains the kind of 
jcalousy which makes me sometirnes fecl that »0»e can 
miss Malcohn morc than I do- somctimes I am good 
enough to make a generous cxception in favour of his 
family and of the New Hous% but hot always even 
of them. It is absurd» of cours% for do I hot know 
perfectly well how enormously (morc than any man I ever 
knew; it is not, obviously true of everybody, however 
much it eught to be) he loved his aih folk" and his home, 
and was constantly talking of you all ? This and that he 
would mean to do when he got homc for the holidays» just 
as he used to wl.en he was a èoy : it was good to hear him. 
Ycs I do know rcally how sad a blow it must be to you ail. 
Ah but I have seen his lettcr written just before the 
advance» and it is wonderfifl is it hot ? I have good reason 
to know of one friend of his, who walked over some lately 
German trenches; with what thought, I leave you to imagine. 
I do not know, myself, whcre he fell ; but it is no idle say- 
ing as I may Ferhaps explain later, if I ttll you how surcly 
every tree, and village, and trench speak of him and his 



E. H. L.S. August 1916 279 
achievement to me» as I pass by .... A most wonderful 
letter» surely and so typical of him: it is, indeed» an 
inspiration to any soldier that reads it. But more im- 
portant than all is the great Fact that he was petfectly 
happy about it allmand "wl, oever could imagine he would be 
otherwise ?and that for him tl:ere is nothing bt, t a frenzy 
of congratulatio% even of envy» though for us therc's 
always the almost intolerable blank. I can say that» now : 
I could hot feel it a month ag% when it was too new. 
But now (in a tiny little degree) I seem to think I guess 
the way he went, and with what colossal triumph and 
shouting he really ought to be grccted ! 
Yes but that is casily produced her% that sense of 
immense success in his doings, and of a wildly inimitable 
and chall«nging example to us others; but for you it 
cannot be quite tl:e saine. A Ictter like this cannot, 
however light-leaded (a the moment) its writer really 
consist of nothing but a beating of the drums! And I do 
ask you to belicve that I most deep'.y sympathise with you  
most dceply and most easily in the loss of your dear 
brothcr and my fri«nd. No: in spire of those last two 
words, I am not going to be jcalous any longer! Only 
very sorry for you ail» and hoping most dcvoutly for your 
comfort. 

To H. E. E. HowsoN. 
.,,4ug. 8 96. 
We go up into the trenches to-morro% so l've not time 
tbr a very long letter. One can I think, tcel moe quietly 
and happily about our dear Man now ; at least I feel much 
happier than at first. I think his wonderful letter must 
lead that way. Out bit of the line will not be what is 
known as a soft job though our present intentions after 



28o E.H.L.S. August I 9 I6 
arrival are somewhat doubtful. But I would like )ou to 
think I'm fit and well and happy, and not to be anxious 
at all. 
To HIS SISTERo B.E.F. 
lug. 187 I916. 
Latcly we bave beçn seeing  Punchcs '7 and  Bairns- 
fathers '7 and things galore, though I don't think it's very 
likely that we shall be quite so comfy tbr ncxt wcek. \Ve 
af% in fact 7 going into the trenches to-morrow, and we 
know that it will hot be what is callcd a 'cushy' job. 
More than that we do not know, just at prescnt ; but  keep 
up your best courage ', as the dear 7 dear, patient, and little 
understood, and most adorable Riflemen say in the simple 
letters home which I bave c«nsorcd and scnd with mine. 
To C. A. ALINGTON. B.E.F. 
Thank you enormously for your letter and for the copy 
of The Salopian. I needn't say 7 what every one must have 
said when they heard it, how wonderful I thought your two 
addresscs.* I liked hugely the definition of Education : it 
seemed exactly to combine the two sidcs of the thing ; so 
that neither the Philistine hero ,tbr ail his merits) nor the 
mere artist can quite claire perfection ; a sort of Goliath- 
Léon Berthelini character (is that the naine of the man ha 
 Providence and the Guitar' ? = I mean bim, anyway) is 7 I 
suppos% tolerabl% but hot either a!one. 
To ms FATHER. B..E.F. 
Aug. z87 I916. 
I cxpcct you'ld like some horrors before long!! I darc 
say I can give you somc ont day 7 but it doe»n't seem par- 
* « A Conversation' : published in Sbrewsbury Fabls. 
- In New --qrabian Arigbts. 



E H.L.S. Septembcr xgx6 z8 

ticularly necessary. There is nothing so very romantic over 
the rcmains of brave men blown to every kind of bits wceks 
ag% as to make them worth remembering too mucl b nor in 
recollcctions of thc saine thing happcning to one's own 
peoplc in onc's trench» though» so far» ordy in a mildcr 
degrcc as regards numbcrs. Oh! but thc R.A.M.C.! 
Thcy are wondcrful. Seventy-six hours' carrying without 
sleep one party had. And Fil ncver forget aftcr my 
corporal (I call him « mine ') was killcd» how» on a call tbr 
stretchcr-bcarers» four came doubli»g towards the cxposed 
place» atad 1 had to shout them back» ail but on% thc others 
bcing nccdlcssly exposcd. That arrival nearly broke me 
down altogcther. 
It is a WOlqDV.'VL world, you know!! 

To s IIorHER. B.E.F. 
Septe»tber ,  9  6. 
I ara now (for a considcrablc pcriod, probably ; pcrhaps-- 
wcll, no ; but anyway a good long rcst, I can sa),; during 
which ),ou nccd not bave thc least anxicty thcrcforc !)right, 
right back, sevcral mlles behind thc most bcautiful cathcdral 
I know, which I hope, if l'm lucky, 1 ma), see again soon» 
at closer range than the railway. 
We are quite exhaustcd. After a terrible forty-cight 
hours'.(on and off) bombardmcnt of varying dcgrccs in 
trcnches» we came out and marched to bivouac in reserve. 
I went dcad off to sleep scveral timcs on the road and 
bumped into the man ahcad! Comic» that ; but at the 
rime I was hot happy» becausc I was so donc that it was 
a strugglc to get in at ail. This was ont of the few times 
l've been so done that I had difficulty in keeping going, 
and it is, I supposc, rather a gooJ thing for people who 



28z E.H. L,.S. September 96 
are as a rulc reaso»ably strong, at any rate to bc really 
« done' occasionally--(not, of course, that l've becn out 
here eleven lnonths without tqnding out; but seldom, ifever, 
was I so tircd as last night) : it keeps them mindful of what 
sort of task is suitablc for the smaller, and pcrhaps weaker, 
among thc mon. 
\Vell, I will write to-morrow some more about thc things 
wc've been through. At pr¢sent, thcre's no nccd to say 
more than that therc has been indecd good cause to thank 
God for the cvcnts of the last three weeks.' 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Sept, I: 96. 
It would hot bc justice to our own pcoplc hot to point out 
that wc were gloriously miserable up there, and had the most 
beat[y rime, thank you! That wood, with its horrible 
battle signs, was indeed no joy-party • and it scems likely 
to remain an oftènce before God and man for a long, long 
rime, for it is hOt casy to see how to nend mattcrs under 
present conditions. Yet cvcn so, in one's betttr moments, 
v«hen not too ¢done', one could sce it was al/vcry glorious, 
and even from the horrorsnothing very new, only so 
ubiquitous--that were al/around it was hot hard to catch 
ome sknder inspiration .... Well, well. 
And now here we arc, right, right back, mlles ri'oto any- 
wherethough the most lovdy cathedral on carth (I think) 
is within a day's match. And we find we arc firther from 
shops and civilisation than cverit is thirty odd days now 
since we saw a shopand in spite of being happy enough 
(as we ought to be : the last forty-eight hours' bombardment 
left me unhurt, but lit by little pieces literally a dozcn 
rimes, I should think ; only filling stuWon the clothes or 
' Spent in trenches by Delville Wood. 



E. H. L.S. Scptember 1916 OE 8 _ 
helmct and only a fcw nasty jars» eally which but for the 
helmet would» I think havc done for me but my dug-out 
was broken in over me once andwell» in Fact [ was ver)" 
lucky though the whole of a very long and tedious bit oç 
crumping ; that's al! really).As [ was saying instead of 
being happy to be aliv% we're already strafing' at aot 
having ordered things to read (and so forthsee below) and 
il1 fact» to put it plainly--could you be so vey good as to 
send me out something? I don't a bit know what but ['m 
getting horribly stupid and inorant of everythin: bas 
nobody written a book ]ately which one ought to rcad ? 
(That's rather drcadful» but I can say that»as l'm so 
notorious!y not a seekcr a'tcr books that are qn the s,im' 
so to speakwithout being misunderstood !) Hasn't some- 
body written somcthing like tl',ose Ho«se»zster's Letter 
lately or some pedagogic work ? And all this panicking 
about educatien that goes on in Tbe Time  do tell m% 
when you next writ% where xve are. One would think» 
fi-om the way people talk that there would be no Eng- 
! - 
land as we knew it at all after the War.O indeed» 
anything printed would be simply pounccd upon out ht re 
you can't imagine low mentally starved one gets and all 
without any particular reason if one would once make up 
one's mind to the prospect of treating books as what thc 
Army calls  consumable stoes'; I mean of gctting a book 
out and hot ri»diîg leaving it behind in billtts. Ah if 
every one did that ! For we had to send home practically 
everything we owned lately to g¢t hggage down to weight. 
Ther% l've got that grievance off l've said much the 
same thing to my people too. It's all olle's fault fol" hot 
asking sooner  so is the absolute starvation which secms to 
threaten one's religious attitude out here--unless one is 
already one of the great ones. Then again wc bear a few 



284 E.H.L.S. Septembcr x9 6 
serinons--about onc a month» perhaps ; hot more than a 
handful» ever since I came out ; and not till to-day have 
I written home to ask for something to read to keep one's 
soul alivc. Onc's so appallingly stupid, that's ail : itis easy 
to arrange bctter, really. 
I said I would explain ' and so forfl '» just now. It means 
l've bcen madc sort of O.C. Entertainments (!) for our 
rest period» and ara too blank to be able to think ofanything 
clever bcyond football and conccrts--  and so forth '» and 
it's ail very vague and unsatisfactory. And in fact as l've 
hOt had any proper night's slecp t'or ages» I'm writing 
drivel which should never have been begun» and had better 
go to bcd. 
PS. Do scnd me a sermon lcttcr : l'm surc that's what 
I want. A kind of religious Broadsheet» you know ; they 
ARE WANTED ] 

To HIS FATHER. B.E.F. 
8qotember 6» 191 6. 
This first visit to the wood was the most unplcasant timc 
wc have had» in some ways» which is consoling--now it's 
over ! ! 
Out casualties, owing to the vigorous digging which the 
men put in, wcre quite small. One rather tragic figur% 
though he was brave enoagh» and only rather badly shaken» 
was Wallis» our comic singer» who had certainly had as bad 
a rime as most others among the mon. 
It was in the rccreation room at Arras» in the » that 
hc tirst came out strong as a humorist ; and to sce the poor 
fellow scarcd badlyand no wonder--during these later 
days of our trip» was sad for any one who remembered his 



E. H. L. & 

impcrsonation of that 
Toreador, or his song 
beet ' : 

September x 9 * 6 2 8 y 
iratt husband in search of the 
 Leetlc by leetle, and beet by 

I am hot fishing, though here I sit" 
l'm only drowning a worm in it 
Little by littl% and bit by bit. 

Ail of which» of course» was rcproduced at  
quite nncmorable starlit conccrt in thc orchard. 
will no doubt rcvive him .... 

, at that 
Still, a rest 

Horrors ? Well, ycs, 1 suppose so; but therc sccms 
no useful purposc in rccalling thcm. Evcn from the most 
lanncntable remains of brave nnen blown to cvcry sort or 
bits, and accusingly unburied bcneath the stars, it was hot hard 
to catch a rather obvious inspiration. Thcre is some rather 
grinn tale of a certain hand protruding through the parapet 
(such as you may see withcred and bcckoning, and not 
ghastly at ail, near the more drcadful vallcy of Tophet, 
which lies to the west, nearcr the village's brick-dust) in 
sonne t renches far away fronn here, which a certain Reginnent 
grasped fanniliarly as they passcd by. I am hot at all sure 
whether this was a profane act at ail, even though done in 
jest. Myself, as I said on hearing it» I do hot feel hunnorous 
about the dead at ail : I fcel nnore inclined to salure thenn : 
in tact, whcn alon% I generally do. But it is not impos- 
sible» I think» to see sonnething grinnly sacranncntal in this 
curious greeting of theirs ; and I believe the shade of that 
warrior snniled to see it, and knowing the hands that grasped 
his tbr those of new connradcs, he would hot be troubled 
at ail. 
Oh! dcar» this is poor stufF. But what would you 
bave ? 



286 E.H.L.S. September i96 

To ms MOrHER. B.E.F. 
Selt" 77 I916" 
Thcrc was a Rotor 1orry going from Brigade H.Q:_. to 
Abbevillc at % carrying QEartcrm.stels and Mess Cor- 
porals and casual officers in search of purchases of various 
kinds ; and I wa» sent with our Q:_.M. (Pairie), to get 
various odds and ends for any one that wantcd them. I 
dare say it was a kind of excuse for gttting me a holiday but 
anyway sundry officcrs arc the ficher by towcl G shaving 
soap, slipper G win% tobacco (oh no; I lcçt that behind 
at thc cantecn a bad business!)7 and so forth. Rather 
good gaine, sceing all your money gradually thde away, and 
then rcmcmbcring you'll gct it all back ncxt day. 
ARcr a ROSt wonderful lidc wc round thc lorry gonc 
Off hot having givcn us cvcn rive mmutcs ,racc. Whatour 
Q_.M. did was to catch no lcss a man than thc A.D.M.S. 
just leaving for the town in his aRbulancc. So we got on 
that and were there in no tire. The Brigadier has a lovely 
château' in the vallcy» and I noticed that lac has real 
chairs to sit on ; I Rean» leather arm-chairs that one might 
dream of in a dug-out ! But I suppose cvery one thinks lais 
laeighbours are more cosy than himsclf in thc Army and 
ccrtainly the B'dier did hot enjoy lais day any Rore than 
did. 
With us was an interprcterxvith tcrrific good rumours ; 
rather tantalising this sort of thing I fear but you can't 
havc thcse yet ] 
You know there is a good deal to be said for riding of 
a morning through the wondcrful country that is rcally 
Francc ; real vallcys and hills» and a rcal harvcst waiting 
to bc brought in» and real trces at which you look in surpris% 
to sec if it is truc that they really bave thcir branclcs and 



E. H. L.S. Septembcr 1916 2 8 7 
are hOt torn from thcir roots by shclls. Een now, after 
leaving the salient months ago, a valley of any pronounced 
character still strikcs one as a glorious novelty. 
Well, we reached thc town. Throughout thc day I ruade 
the wineshop my depot (let me add hastily that it is a 
whoesale place !) for myparcels, and after making a fcw pur- 
chases I wcnt offto ste the cathedral. It stands wonder- 
fully well above the neighbouring bouses, and though it is 
hot like the Cathedral» it was quite cnough to make me 
catch my breath» on secing its two towers suddenly round 
the corner. Late Gothic» I suppos% but Gothic good and 
unmistakable: and the boast on the west door, ' Dilexi 
dccorcm Domus tuae' (dated J6z+» by the way), was worth 
making. 
There was a curious monument (I suppose to St. 
Wulfran) standing in the middle of the chancel ; a gold, 
mitrcd abbot, facing tl'.e congregation with so realistic an 
attitude that I could hot» for a moment, be sure that it was 
not some priest rcciting some very spccial office. Though 
if s% and even if not s% why back to the Altar ? 
Yes, indeed 1 stood still and praised God tbr that 
façade. S% as usual, I went into my own place to pray. 
I met tragedy, though, on my way out. (Mais» mon Dieu, 
le beau tableau l) It was a black-clad woman sobbing into 
ber handkerchief by a pillar near the west end, watchcd 
commiseratingly by a girl with two little children. It was 
a temptation, almost» to ambush her and murmur Du 
courage * ' or something ofthe sort, but I thought not. 
This is the sort of thing that makes me feel the incarnation 
of selfishness, for really believing in my tbolish moments 
that the \Var, takcn as a whole, is not such bad fun .... 
Therc was ont quite famous half-hour or so, actually in 
a second-hand bookshop, though OE½d. for reading Tle 



E. H.L.S. September 9x6 

Vision of Er (in an old collegiate edition, I suppose) is not 
bad going!! True to my pedagogue instinct, perhaps, I 
also got an old copy of Horace, just to throw away, and 
a thing with Gerlnan in it. These wcre both well worth 
getting, just for a fcw days, at least. Here I must stop, 
as space is running out. 

To HIS MOTHER. B.E.F. 
Sept. 7, '9 6. 
I read Tl, e Vision of :Er after breakfast ; .voilà assez ! 
Fussy, otherwise : fuss with that map of billets for the 
Diviskm, mild fuss I mean; tl»e Battalion are hot worrying 
me tbr it, but my incompetence is, and I am already sick 
of compass bearings. Mild fuss, too with the football 
arrangements, though Dennet is being splendid with them. 

To ms FaTl-iS./. B.E.F. 
ept. I916. 
Books. Do send me some Novel (or something) that 
people are talking about. What does one read, nowadays, 
of anything ? My mind is a complete blank, and I get 
daily stupider and more cabbage-like. Is there anything 
in the 7 d. series (n% not tbat, I think) that is reaIly good 
just now? Do you know that for over thirty days l've 
not been near a place wherc you could buy anything in 
print at all or anything else, and I'm simply starved (men- 
tally, I mean !! hot otherwise) ? I lived for a week on 
J. Verne's Centre de la Terre, borrowed from a school- 
toaster at . Which reminds me, l've been terribly 
starved for some devotional book, and if you could send 
out one, Knox Little's, perhaps: oh dear, oh dear, look at 
this list, and this request has corne nearly last ; it "s rathcr 



E. H. L.S. September I 9 I 6 2 8 
dreadful. Sornetirnes» in these little churches, I havc 
pounced greedily» like a famished beast, on an old, tattered 
volume of Huguenot or Roman serrnons, to catch any glimpse 
of a message of exhortation frorn any casual line, and round 
it, every tirne; but I ought to have written long ag% to 
ask for sornething fuller .... 
I believe the thing would be if I could have sornething 
(turning to secular literature again) sent out pcriodically, 
of a cheap nature, to leave and lose. One docsn't hopc to 
return smoke% which cost more; and yet, just because books 
will and rnust be lost now, one hesitatcs to ask for thcm. 
is the wrong end of the stick, surely ! 

To HI$ FATHERo B.E.F. 
Sept. 9, 1916- 
1 Ciilian Reaction. st eek Sept. "6. 
If it seems, as it probably does that my Ictters are about 
anything but the Push and the War, this does hot so rnuch 
imply a conscientious dread of the ccnsor (myself, rnainly) 
as a rather definite feeling that, for the time, it is rather 
good to have a change. And I bave had particularly good 
opportunities ofletting thc War alone for a week, for I bave 
been rnade to run a little cornmittee of three to look after 
garnes', i.e. a concert, football, cross-country running, 
and so forth ; and as this takes more rime than one might 
think we have been given a good dcal of tirne free from 
the hot very hurnorous parades which the Battalion bas 
while out at test. I don't as a mattcr of fact, excuse rny- 
self the early rnorning match (7.0-8.30, usually) because, 
though I arn notoriously a horrible person to get out of bed, 
I do definitely enjoy this show enorrnously, and it does a 
little to keep one fit; so, though hot cornpelled, I generally go. 
2135 U 



9o E.H.L.S. September  9  6 
Itis truc that l've been asked occasionally, ' What is it 
that this lazy, mysterious Sports Committce docs ?" But 
tcll them that itis their jealousy and ignorance that makes 
them ask ! It's a bit like the Army, at first sight, to put 
»te into Association Football, but I suppose an Old Bluc is 
supposed to know something of how to start things of the 
kind : that is ont explanation. Anyway, let me claire that 
concert is being given to-night, and that out football 
ground is rather remarkably good. So is the team, btt 
we let thc Captain of thc side do all tlat, naturally, so the 
aforesaid ' L.M.S. Committee" claires no credit there. 
We beat the Trcnch Mortar Battery handsomely ycsterday. 
However, what I was saying was that a reaction bas 
rather set in, and for a week l've been rather cnjoying the 
different outlook. Of course the visit to the big town  
was a day to remember ; but there was an excursion to a 
smaller market-town, quite soon after we came here, which 
stood out at the rime as a day of wonder. Remember, I 
had not seen a shop for over thirty days ; and imagine 
what it was like to be confronted, aRcr a delightful ride 
with Heycocl, with two really standing strtets (no ruins), 
full of little shops where :Cou could buy civilised things 
like teacups, books (tbere were at least twenty, in ail, in 
the village ; twenty volumes I mean !), and even shirts, to 
say nothing of fruit and wine, etc. :but hot tobacco, 
except the French, which is rather hopelcss, though I once 
loved their cigarettes, 1 remember. 
They know how to make omelettes thcre, too, but that's 
by the way.... 
This is all very well, and of course the militarism must 
corne back, and corne quickly. If the whole Army said 
Now, Iet's be civilians', the Hun would bave a fine 
rime! But I tell myself that perhaps it doesn't do much 



E. H. L.S. September I 9 I 6 29 I 

harm right back here for once ; and considering the total 
abandonment of my civilian lire with which I took the 
plunge into the Army, I see no reason to doubt my ability 
to get back into the groove ! Let's hope so, as the groove 
however narrow is, I take it, what I ara here to move in! 

To H. E. E. Howsol. B.E.F. 
Sept. 9,  9  6. 
1 was just saying, overleaf, to mysdf, that 1 had met 
a good man. Hc was dining at our Head Q9_arters the 
other night ; 1 forgct his name, or rather 1 never heard it ; 
but he was Adjurant Cambridge O.T.C., like Maclachlan 
at Oxford. 1 said, when he came in to myself that you 
would have callcd him a grcat man ; for when we were 
introduced to him, aftcr getting up in the middle of our 
dinner he took just no notice beyond a glance, and went 
on peeling his coat. This was glorious and ail the more 
because though he didn't care a damn what out names 
were he made himself ver), entertaining at dinner. 
We are for the moment miles upon toiles upon miles 
behind the land of the  Push ', from which the Division 
bas corne out: sufficient that we spent threc weeks there, 
and the Division is supposed to have ruade a great naine. 
Our Battalion was spoken very well of I hear ; we did not 
make any very organised attack but were said to have held 
on to the captured trenches in a satisfactory manner : we 
had a longer go, naturally, than anybody else in the 
Brigad% as it was not the turn of the Battalion to go over 
the top this rime. I don't think 1 want to bother about 
this Push just now, though. It is Autumn, and there are 
good things about. And, between ourselves, that Wood" 
i Delt'ille Wood 



E. H. L. S. September 96 

is not one of the better places. 1 said the Division had 
been in for one dip in the Push»--you understand .... 
Well, this morning there was the real hungry» academic 
mist» that has marked the beginning of a new epoch every 
autumn these twenty odd years in my memory. Last time 
1 saw it begin would be somewhere near Ypres, 1 suppose. 
There were also some unusually good trees about (they 
look strang% somehow with their branches on); and there 
was a deal of dew» and I confess I ran a few hundred yards 
before I would consent to eat breakfast. Not much wind» 
nor your cattle, x here; but what Phiz will remember as 
«good birds' were eating placidly and rathcr enviably» in 
a way. And though we cannot exactly be said to be 
getting near a chance of fires--not the rires you mean any- 
way !--we can still remember that it is going to happen 
to you. Als% though I don't know how far this is due to 
the autumn air which came like an inspiration from heaven 
to-day we are beginning to think about books. The O.C. 
(Garton) and I hav% during the last week held a series of 
duets, wherein one says that the Army is a very stupefying 
concern and leads one's mind to an entirely vegetable stat% 
and the other says» « Yes» it's awful : we must do something 
about it'. Nothing very much has come of this yet» but 
we have ruade violent and curious resolutions; how we 
will read books during the winter» solid indigestible books 
into which one must get one's mental teeth, books with 
backs lettered» blue and important» books the very sight of 
which will restore our self-respect. Phi/osot, hy is all the 
talk in the proposais» and we mentioned Pragmatism the 
other day and I felt the Man's protest and warned myself» 
 No% not too much jargon about « what works "'." This 

* As seen in Westmorland. 



E. H. L.S. September I 9 I 6 2. 9 3 

intellectual renaissance contains some great moment with 
regard to « Love in the valle), ".mG. was the first to quote 
but then he can quote sta»s pede i» u»o/'or « duration" 
and Rupert B., but I told you about that. Also I was per- 
suade:t to read Bealby. And though the st),le of that 
work is lamcntable and its tale irksom% it really marks 
a big change, for for ycars l've read nothi»g nothing! ! . .. 

To C. A. ALINGTON. Camp, behl»d tre»ches somehere. 
Sept. 13, 1916. 
Now» thank ),ou a thousand times tr your great lettcr. 
Yes, I agrce about the hymn .x it is the one that matters, 
and» thank God, so many men here entircl)' feel the truth 
of the first two lines» whatever else the), believe. They 
must» I think: it is so much less troubl% if only that 
occurs to them as a reason ! 

To H. E. E. Howsol. 1 Camp. 
Sept. 13, 1916. 
Herewith, two letters 2 of the Man. One is a great letter 
written beIbre his attack, the other one is one I got in April ; 
it is very good and very typical, but I fear one page is 
missing. 
As for the Division in the last show, 1 told you, I think, 
that ail the big men said wonderfully good things of it, 
which is gratifying. By the time you get this» it will have 
received the biggest compliment s ot all ; please tell C. A. A. 
and Worcester, as, though I have told them, they will 
 No. 53 5 in Hymns wl. and 214. 
I.ord» it belongs not to my care 
Whether I die or lire. 
 See pages z37 and z56. 
3 This refers to the attack which took place two days later. 



294 E.H.L.S. September 96 
like to hear again and letters are irregular and slow 
just now. 
C. A. A. bas been awfully good» and sent me out books 
in reply fo my appeal. ¥ou were good enough to oflïer the 
sae» Man» more than once» and if there were hot reasons 
of space in my valise» 1 would bave accepted long ago. 
O.er a month ago» though» we had to lighten out kits 
belote we went into the Push» and that explains why we 
bave had little to read. He bas sent ¢liftan 8chool lddresses, 
by one Irwin» to-day» and Cha»ce» and Bigloa Pap«m» none 
of which I know. If ail gocs well» we havc been thinking 
ofread ing more in the future ." I believe Boswell or Mflitary 
History are indicated. Man»if 1 write late G will you send 
me a heavy» edifying work on M. History or Tactics ? I 
feel very ignorant and stupid on this business» and there 
may be a chance of mending! 
Shrewsbury wiil» I suppos% be bcginning again soon after 
you get this» and as I wrote in my diary» among a list of 
good things» tkere will be Autumn Mists» and new tCaces»and 
new books» and the sound of early footbaIl .... Ail that 
is vcry good» and.the Man would bave liked to bave watched 
a match with me out here» for it would have been full of 
memories. 
Not that I think he bas forgotten ! 

To HIS FATHER. B.E.F. 
Sei0t. I+, 1916.' 
You have, no doubt, by now got my letter explaining 
more or less. But in any case there is no need to add 
Inore, as I told Mure, except that I love you all very, very 
dcarly, and that I believe» as I have said Vefore, that it is 
good to be here. 

' The day before his death. 



E. H. L.S. July ,916 29)* 

DIARY 

uly zç, 96. 
If was July 13, noon» when 1 got Phiz's letter that the 
Man was missing ; July +» before I got a letter written in 
reply. It was hard» because I seemed incapable of what 
I called an attitude about ou,- Man ; it was a terribly 
egotistical efkbrt, that letter» but all 1 could do seemed to 
me tobe honest. Well» I could not feel the sort of mourn- 
t'ul triumph which is apt to associate itselfwith some losses 
--other people's especially (!); hot yet» anyhow. Nor 
was it any good, the other extreme--  A complete knock- 
out'. Nor when» as ] said»  I thought of many brave men» 
and told myself I must be very stout-hearted. The Man is 
dead: carry on.' For» at that» I me,'ely laughed at myself. 
Was it not all out of a book and quite insincere ? Or, I 
thought» with a great thrill of tears, as I paced that little 
garden near the , full ofevery summer scent that went 
so near the Man's heart» should I just write on a p. c. 
CCredo,? Rathcr good» had I dared ; yct I think» some- 
how, I would rather make that claire, the only one that 
really matters in this lire, after all» to myself than announce 
it as a fact (though I did suggest it to Phiz). 
I ara so tired now (it is July-..ç), that I cannot make 
out a recollectioa of »vhat else I said. But I rernember 
saying to Ronnie in a letter that the sort of physical etk0,-t 
of thrusting away unpleasant feelings (as over bad sights of 
war, for example) seemed to be making itself felt here, hall 
mechanically. One seems to treat ail feelings alike and 
push them, or rather try to .push them» aside ; and that, 
without regard to the true nature of the feelings in question. 



296 E.H.L.S. July 
And just because semi-physical, so this effort rires, 
doubtedly. I should add that both Phiz and Ronnie wrote 
wonderfil wondefful letters ; and that I think the answer to 
his promise in his closing sentence is not being withheld. 
Ah no: it is my last evening in this line (7.3o p.m. 
July zT): things may be going to happen. There cannot 
be any more faltcring over him. In God's great arithmeti G 
said I to my father in a recent lettcr, l ÷ I in sorrows do 
ot make .. Surely surely if all the world is not wrong, 
I mz/st think ç All's well with our Man', al:ter all. He 
knows too now I most deeply believ% he has round at last 
his musi% his art and his loves ; and I think through ail 
my sorrows» of him reaching down to his faltering friend» 
»ot v:ithout many a prayer that I too, may somehow flud sight» 
to see ohich oay it is oritten for me to go and neither to doubt 
uor to complaln any more at ail. 

1Vight uly z7-oE8. love. 
Wc led on quickly by the north gate and out at once, so 
as to avoid dawn on the Open Road. But it was daylight 
when we got up and out though the mist prevented any 
harm resulting from that. It was only about ç miles and 
as always always thank God I recovered completely and 
gloriously with the dawn. (Cf. the xS-mile route match 
at night on the Plain.*) So much so that I had to embark 
oa a needless and vehement row with K.P. over the 
breakfast question in the big billet. This was silly: but 
lcss so was the fact that I decided to get my own (and hOt 
make pcople cook) in the village. This I did in a little 
cottagc over the Scarpe but not belote I had a glorious 
little bathe in the river. I only took a short header and 
out-swim, owing to the long match ahead and the heat but 
 See page 60. 



E. H. L. $. 
it was wondcrfully reviving. 
' to-morrow ', though ! 

August x 9 x 6  9 7 
By now 1 had fairly reached 

"1o Grand Rullecourt. uly 
A day oftremendous heat. It was always hot, hot ; and 
strange thirst for most of the men, caused a good deal of 
discomfort and a few fall-outs. We had a long halt Ibr 
dinner somewhere near Hauteville in a field, and I dis- 
covered again the merits of the Army stew on a hot day. 
But we were all very distinctly tired when we reached 
G. R. ; I perhaps rather particularly after pulling by his 
rifle an actingcorporal, who had got rather done up by the 
heat. There, at last lay the old village of the snows, ail 
dusty in the sun ; and though we had hot time or energy 
to pilgrim to the old billet where Songer, Coulson lrving, 
Elliott and myself talked Browning and gramophone-music 
of an evening, yet we did hot forger to remember some 
good days when I had not yet, even once, lost the command 
of the Company. 

Candas : before going to Buire. 
By the Railvvay. lug. 7, 1916. 
There remains the high bank on which 1 lic behind the 
lines and a perfectly idle afternoon, on which to watch from 
it that kind of motion which is notoriously the most 
excitinghthe to and fio of heavy trains. One such has just 
gone by; sacred I think to the R.F.A., for most of the 
uncountable trucks lad one of those remarkable soldiers 
at least on board them, in various attitudes of repose. 
Repose, certainly ; though few but soldiers would find it so. 
In one there were men stretched gloriously asleep on the 
floor seen through the halopen door; while over them 
and nearly on them, stood their animais tethered and 



298 E.H.L.S. August 96 
patient, with the kind of silent wonder on their Faces which 
one is accustomcd to find in pictures of the Nativity. 
Repose, certainly, in the G.S. wagons, which, packed 
on the trucks, carried a gunner or two on tl:e front seat, 
exaltcd very high, and serene in air with cigarette and 
magazine. Repose, too, I devoutly hope, for the animals as 
well ; but eigbt borses to a wagon is a tight fit, I fear, and 
ruade no less so by the spurious label ' Moutons ', which 
ridiculously stands on their carriage wall. There: that 
train is gone, with its endlcss rows oftrucks, and its serene 
look of rest from the land of the ' Push'; and we are left 
witbout a train (a moving one, anyhow) to watcb. « We' 
are a goodly crowd for what is known as 'one tactical 
train ' 
We are hot at ail perturbed by the delay ; at least, I think 
hot: I know one officer who (after his manner) is loving 
it. Tbe rest of two Battalions are stretched belote me, 
about four deep among the rails, and I do hot think tley 
are in undue hurr)'. A R.F.C. car dashes up beyond the rails, 
and a D.R.L.S. (cyclist), or whatever he is, whizzes down 
the road behind my head. Aeroplanes, of course, corne (with 
their kind of coquettish curtsying, peculiar to tF, eir kind 
when infantry are about), to see the trains and their loads ; 
a Red Cross car flits in and out ofthe station ; Frenchmen 
wander down the line in shirt-sleeves and white trousers, or 
in a blue tunic and forage cap. 
But nowhere is there much of a burry, thank God. It is 
truc the guns are pelting away somewhere or other ; but 
nobody Cal-es. The sun shines over our shoulders, and it 
is the infantryman's da}, out. Every moment sees him, 
indeed, a thought more comfortable ; and as I write, he is 
aiready beginning to get his tea. 



E. H. L.S. August I 9 I 6 2 9 9 
lug. zS. 
Thc line I took was a ver}, ordinary one» and was merely 
to the effect that I did not at all regard tle scicnce x as 
nonsense--it would be silly to sa}, that to one who had bccn 
rccommendcd to it by Sir Oliver Lodge !--but that» tili 
it advanced farther» I did hot like thc idea of my friends 
burning thcir fingers ; using the figure of a new surgical 
opcration. A selfish and unliberal view» probably» but at 
present I do hot see past it. I did also say onc or two 
things» with no ver}, ccrtain voicc» about the faith .... 
Wc wcrc tircd when wc dctrained at God knows whcrc 
for a three-rnilc marcl b and thc rncn wcre glad to gct down 
to yet another bivouac. Tca was got for thcm» sornchow» 
and thcy were allowed to slcep in peace for a good time : and 
so were wc. H.G. and 1 livcd in the wee room by the yard» 
where the gunners carne to drink cidcr of an evcning (how 
good it ail sounds from hcrc» behind thcWood» and how 
little we appreciatcd out trcrncndously good fortunc !)7 
and the others in a bivouac. And ail thc while thc lovcly 
river ran behind the trces» full» full of Wiltshire and thc 
Downs» with an adorable weir by which one grand rnorn- 
ing I sat with that copy of old Lamartin% borrowed from 
the village schoolmasterah» but that must be returned 
please God ! 
And therc it was that the grand doctor and I would have 
bathed but wcre prevented by a wholly darnnable but 
perhaps not quite fitilc» parade. There too it was that I 
sailcd my boata F. S. postcard makes a grand onc 
and followcd it eagerly under the anxious eyes of tle gun- 
ners on the bank. I will do it again if we get therc. 
Perhaps wc may. Is it on the road to Am,ens I wonder ? 
Supposing we went there!! 
 Psychical science. 



3 oo E.H.L.S. August  9' 6 
Ce serait moi qui chanterais, 
Ce serait moi qui chanterais, 
Dans votre catbédrale!-- 
I ara a poor soul, and thus it was that my grand moments 
were rather limited to the pre-breakfast period. I would 
go along the wood road to the railway, and look in at the 
little chocolate and memento-card shop, or while away rime 
buying ink and absurd stationery at the chemist'smwho 
does hot» however, sell ail he ought--or I would look in 
at the church: there are few I have been near without 
going in for many a long month now, tnereby shewing how 
lamentably like I ara to C. A. A.'s man who goes to get 
religious emotions anywhere, and then cornes back and is 
« no kinder to his Aunt' 
And aRer breakfast, somehow, the rime would also be 
glorious till about nool " for always dreaming» dreaming, as 
evcr, I would walk round until the rifle parade and the test 
of it came along : and then, by the afternoon tire% I would 
write hurried letters to overdue people» with a rather less 
keen taste of life ; till finally round came the night parade» 
and with it always the splendid and eternally unique 
expectation of 2lorning. 

page or to of Good Things. 
These are some of the things I love, and God pity those 
who find nothing dear among them ail. 
Maps ; and route marches. And Gothic architecture 
yes» and the little Village Spire rising out of the green. And 
Hills ; hills from the plains, or the plains from the hillsI 
do hot know which is better. Autumn Mists, and new 
Books, and the Sound of Early Football ; and» with that, 
Large Table and a Scholar's Morning and the Memory 



E. H. L.S. September I 9 I 6 30 [ 
of Many Patient Men unsung. Small brooks and sluices 
amid the water-meadows, and their rceds like tongues 
of tire: and great rivers also, and big ships that ride 
them in the harbour. And Dust in carly spring, and 
the great white road swinging over the Dovns, and the 
lane that brings you to the fairies in thc loncly dinglc. 
13ach's Fugues also, and the sad songs of much infantry 
singing together. And bridges, whether over water or rail» 
especially if there is the sun dancing over ail. And grcen 
fields after London» but more» London after the wilderness. 
Old books and their fragrance and their cndlcss columns. 
And Paintings by Murillo: horscback at dawn: railway 
journeys» long and book-full : and ,unning but hot fast or 
far ; fol" I ara a poor athlete. Sleep ; and food aftcr hunger ; 
and drink after thirst, especially iro;vn Army Tea in the 
heat: and trees» especially the silver bilch and the slim 
lady poplar : and French peasants and their kind farewells : 
and Eon's fields under midsummer floods in boilingJune, 
with the Winchester Match to follow. 13ells, espccially in 
the less dcar places for these bring a swiftcr memory ; as 
you may hear in thc ward at Hazebrouck» and rememher 
many great towers and little beifrics of home. And thtre 
are good things to be done in a boat with the right man 
to help» and the right part of the river to do tEem in, and 
no crowds shouting» unless it be in the re-told tales when 
thc lamps are lit and the row is over. And that is a good 
moment when the dusty Company piles arms in bivouac 
after a long day ; but less good than  Stand Dowu ' after a 
night of watching, when the larks fly ncutral over No Man's 
Land and the sun has madc up his mind. And the ancient 
Greek tongu% because it is thc perfcct tongue ; and the 
Latin» because it has fought and conquered the centuries. 
And a high wind on the Shropshire hilis is good» and the 



E.H.L.S. September 96 

smell of hay at evening. And the theatre and full-hearted 
applaus% such as men and women give in England» but not 
in France» where they doit for hire. And best surely is 
the coming home on leave of a soldier ! 
But most, far most of ail» that which 1 most rarely find ; 
and what itis you will look in vain to guess for I cannot 
and will not tell. 



