CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




MUSIC 



Cornell University Library 
ML 410.094H38 

Memorials of Frederick Arthur Gore Ousel 



3 1924 022 435 766 



M 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924022435766 



MEMORIALS 



OF 



SIR FREDERICK A. G. OUSELEY 



i^i^io^^lS 





emorials 



F rederickarthurGoreOuseley, 

BARONET, M.A., 

2>octor anb professor of flDusic in tbe mniversitg of ©sforb ; 

precentor ano Canon IResifcentiarp 
in tbe Catbeoral Cbnrcb of toereforb; 

jfounber of St. /IDicbael's, Uenbury, anb jfirst Jncumbent 

of tbat Gburcb. 



BY 



REV. FRANCIS T. HAVERGAL, D.D., 

Prebendary of Colwall, in Hereford Cathedral, 
and Vicar of Upton Bislwp. 




LONDON" : ELLIS & ELVEY, 19. New Bond Street, W. 

WALSALL: W. HENRY ROBINSON. STEAM PRINTING WORKS 

HEREFORD: JAKEMAN & CARVER, AND JOSEPH JONES 

MDCCCLXXXIJL 



Subscribers. 



■**- 



Aldons, J. W., Esq., East Road, Lancaster 
Allen, Mrs., Upton Bishop 

Allen, J. W., Esq., South Bank House, 'Hereford 
Arkwright, J. H., Esq., Hampton Court — 2 copies 

Bailey, L. C, Esq., 25, Knowsley Buildings, Liverpool 

Bailey, R. C., Esq., Borthwnog— 3 copies 

Baldwin-Childe, Rev. Prebendary, Kyre Park 

Barneby, W. H., Esq., Bredenbury Court 

Barrett, W. Alexander, Mus. D., 39, Angell Road, Brixton 

Baskerville, Mrs., Netherwood, Tupsley 

Baylis, Ruth, Upton Bishop 

Beddoe, H. C, Esq., Hereford 

Bentley, Rev. S. V. Bosbury 

Bickersteth, Very Rev. E., D.D., Dean of Lichfield 

Bird, J., Esq., 25, Grosvenor Road, Claughton, Birkenhead 

Browne, Rev. A. H. Sharpness, Berkeley 

Brown, Mrs., Shakespeare Terrace, Hereford 

Bull, Mrs., Harley House, Hereford 

Buhner, Rev. E., The Close, Norwich 

Butler, Very Rev. W. J., D.D., Dean of Lincoln 

Caldicott, Alfred J., M.B., 5, Atherstone Terrace, South 

Kensington — 3 copies 
Campion, Rev. W. M., D.D., Queen's College, Cambridee 
Capel, Rev. A. J., Minor Canon, ani Vicar St. John Baptist, 

Hereford 
Car less, J., Esq., S. John's Street, Hereford 
Carter, Mrs. E., Quarry House, Northfield, Birmingham 
Cattley, Rev. Canon, Worcester 

Chapman, Paul M., Med. D., 4, S. John's Street, Hereford 
Charlesworth, Mr. J., Kington 
Chatfield, Rev, A. W., Vicar Much Marcle 
Chellingworth, Mrs., Grendon Court — 2 copies 
Clarke, Mr. Robert, 4, Portland Street, Hereford 
Clayton, Rev. Prebendary R., Ludlow 
Clements, Rev. Jacob, Sub-dean of Lincoln 
Clive, Mrs. G., Perrystone, Ross 
Cobbold, Rev. Prebendary R., Ross 
Codd, R. H. R., Esq., The Weald, Sevenoaks 
Colborne. Mrs., Hereford 

Cooke, William H., Esq., Sufton Court, Hereford 
Cooper, Mrs., Evington Hall, Leicester— 2 copies 
Cooper, Rev. Vincent K., Durham 

Corfe, Rev. Edward C, Arundel House, Victoria Embankment 
Cotton, Rev. H. Aldrich, Cloisters, Westminster Abbey 
Crane, Mrs. H., Paragon, Weston-super-Mare— 6 copies 
Crane, J. H., Esq,, OakhaMpton, Stourport 
Crispin, A. Trevor, Esq., 1, Ladbroke Gardens, W. 
Croft, T., Esq., 9, Lilly Road, Fairfield, Liverpool 
Croft. W., Esq., Woolton, Liverpool 
Crowther-Beynon, Rev. S. B., Beckenham 
Cummings, W. H., Esq., West Dulwich 
Curtler, Rev. T. G., Vicar S. Stephen's, Worcester 

de Gex, Rev. Alexander, Rector Angersleigh, Taunton 

Delamain, Mrs., Bowscar, Penrith 

De Winton, Miss, Graftonbury, Hereford 

Douglas, Rev. W., Salwarpe Rectory, Droitw;ch 

Du Buisson, Mrs., Hereford 

Duncombe, Rev. W. D. V., Custos of the College, Hereford 

Ely, Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of 

Eaton, Rev. W. Rector, Hope Mansel 

Edouart, Rev. A. G., Vicar Leominster 

Elvey, Sir George, M.D., The Towers, Windlesham, Surrey 

Evans, Mrs., Moreton Court-2 copies 

Evans, Miss Florence, Fownhope 

Every, Mrs., S. Kew Vicarage, Wadebridge, Cornwall 

Farquhar. Sir Walter, Polesden, Dorking 

Fearon, Rev. T. H. B., Rector Norton, Stoke-on-Trent 

Firmstone, Rev. E. R., Rector Kilpeck 

Fletcher, Rev. E. S. B., S. David's Hill, Exeter 

Ford, H. E., Esq., Organist Carlisle Cathedral 

Forman, Mrs. Brodie, Cherwell Lodge, Oxford 

Fowler, Mrs., Thornton, Hereford 

Fuller, Mr. W., Postmaster, Tenbury 

Fyffe, Rev. H., Southsea 



Gibbons, Mrs. J. S., Boddington Manor, Cheltenham 
Grosvenor Library, Belgrave Square, S.W. 

Hereford, Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of 

Hereford, Hon. and Very Rev. the Dean of 

Hereford, Custos and Vicars of the College 

Hereford Free Library 

Hal], Miss, S. Michael's Vicarage, Tenbury 

Hampton, Rev. John, Warden of S. Michael's College — 6 copies 

Hanbury, Hon. and Rev. Prebendary, Rector Shobdon 

Handle/, Mr. W., Tenbury 

Harwood, Basil, Esq., Cathed. Org. Ely 

Havergal, Arthur, Lieut. R.N., Walton-on-Thames 

Havergal, Erskine E. F., 32, Colville Terrace, Bayswater 

Heins, Ernest, Esq., Hereford 

Haynes, Mr. W., Palace Yard, Worcester 

Helmore, Rev. F. J. O., Precentor, Canterbury 

Higgins, Henry, Esq., Thinghill, Hereford 

Hill, Rev. Edward, Rector Sheering, Harlow, Essex 

Hipkins, A. J., Esq., F.S.A., 100, Warwick Gardens, Kensington 

Hogarth, W., Esq., Upton Bishop ' 

Holbech, Ven. Archdeacon, Farnborough, Banbury 

Hopkins, Edward J., M.D., 23, S. Augustine's Road, Camien 

Square 
Hopton, Rev. Michael, Vicar Canon Frome 
Hulme, Rev. W., Rector Brampton Abbotts 
Hunt, Rev. Herbert B., Vicar Wyke, Bradford, Yorkshire 
Hutchinson, Rev. T., Vicar Kimbolton 
Hyde, C. F., Esq., Settle, Yorkshire 
Hylton-Stewart, Rev. C, late Precentor of Chester Cathedral 



Ince, Rev. W., D.D., Canon of Christ Church, Oxford 



Joyce, Rev. F. W. R., Boraston, Tenbury 



Key, Mrs. Henry, Wilton House, Ross 
Knight, J. H., Esq., Hereford 



Ladmore and Sons, Hereford 

Lambert, Rev. Prebendary, Rector Stoke Edith 

Lavington, C. W., Esq., Organist Wells Cathedral 

Lea, Rev. Josiah T., Vicar Far Forest 

Lea, Rev. Prebendary Simcox, Rector Tedstone Delamere 

Lee, Mrs. Walter, East Twickenham 

Lloyd, Mrs , The Broadgate, Ludlow 

Lloyd, C. H., Esq., M.B., Organist Christ Church, Oxford 

Lloyd, Mr. J. W. Kington. 

Linn, Miss Agnes, Galashiels 



Mar and Kellie, Dowager-Countess of, Bow Scar, Penrith 

Mar and Kellie, Countess of, Alloa House, N. B. 

Maddison, Ven. Archdeacon D. R., Richard's Castle 

Mann, A. H., Esq., Organist King's College, Cambridge 

Marriott, F, A., Vicar Chaddesley 

Martin, Mrs., Upton Bishop 

Mee, Rev. J. H. M.D., Kettel Hall, Oxford 

Millard, Rev. J. E. Canon, D.D., Rector Basingstoke 

Millard, Rev. F. M., Rector Otham, Maidstone 

Milman, Rev. W., Sion College, London 

Monk, E. T., Esq., M.D., Radley— 4 copies 

Moor, Rev. Canon, Vicar St. Clement, Truro 

Morgan, Rev. C. R., Rhoscrowther, Pembroke 

Morris, Rev. M. C. F., Vicar Newton-on-Ouse, York— 3 copies 

Muckleston, Rev. R., Rector Dinedor, Hereford 

Musgrave, Rev. W. P., Canon Residentiary, Hereford 



Naylor, J., Esq., Organist York Minster 

Norman, Very Rev. Dean, D.D., Rectory, Quebec, Canada 

Norris, W., Esq., Tenbury 

Nuth, Mrs., Holcombe, Somerset 

Oakeley, Sir Herbert, Edinburgh— 2 copies 
Ouseley, Major-General R. , Tunbridge Wells 



IV. 



Powis, Right Hon. Earl, Powis Castle, Welshpool 

Palin, Rev. E., Vicar Linton 

Palmer, Rev C. S., Vicar Eardisley 

Parker, Mr. S. W., Victoria Street, Hereford 

Parsons, Rev. H., Rector St. Mary Magdalene, Bridgnorth 

Peek, Rev. E., Lyme Regis 

Parry C, Hubert H., Mus. Doc, 17, Kensington Square 

Phillott, Rev. H. W., Chancellor and Canon Residentiary, 

Hereford 
Pilley, Mr. E. J., High Town, Hereford 
Pilley, Mr. James B., High Town, Hereford 
Pilley, Miss M. H., High Town, Hereford 
Pilley, Mr. Walter, 67, Eign Street, Hereford 
Pope, Rev. Andrew, Vicar Delbury, Salop 

Prestage, J. E., Esq., 65, Princess Street, Manchester — 2 copies 
Price, Rev. T., Rector Little Marcle 



Stainer, Sir John, M.D., Professor of Music, Oxford 

Stanhope, Hon. and Ven. Archdeacon B. S., Rector Byford 

Stephens, Edwin, Esq., Hereford 

St. John, Rev. H. F., Dinmore Manor House 

Stone, Miss S., Abher Hall, Ross 

Symonds, J. F., Esq., Okeleigh, Hereford 

Sweet, — , Esq., Tenbury 



Tatham, Rev. F. H., Cathedral School, Hereford 
Taylor, E. W., M.D., Stafford 
Taylor, Rev. J. R. G., Minor Canon, Hereford 
Taylor, James, Esq., M.'B., New College, Oxford 
Temple, Rev. Canon H., Rector Oswaldkirk, York 
Thomson, Miss Alex., Bishopthorpe, York 
Tonking, C. G, Esq., Stonehaven, N.B. 



Rayson, Rev. W., Vicar Lindridge, Tenbury 

Reynolds, W. J., Esq., 48, Highbury Grove, N. 

Rich, Rev. J., Canon, Vicar Chippenham 

Richardson, A. M., Esq., Keble College, Oxford 

Ricketts, Rev. Prebendary, Vicar Knighton 

Ridley, Rev. O. M., East Hill, Charminster 

Riley, John, Esq., Putley Court, Ledbury 

Robarts, Mrs. A., Craycombe, Fladbury 

Roberts, J. V., Esq., Magdalen College, Oxford 

Rogers, Rev. H. C. R., Wood Norton, East Dereham 

Rogers, Rev. T. V. Roxwell, Chelmsford, Hon. Mus. D., 

(Durham) 
Rogers, Mrs., Roxwell Vicarage, Chelmsford 
Rowden, Mrs. G. Croke, St. Faith's, Bournemouth 
Rushout, Hon. Miss, Burford House, Tenbury 



Saye and Sele, Dowager Lady, 16, Bridge Street, Hereford 
Selwyn, Rev. W., Vicar Bromfield 

Sewell, Rev. J. E., D.D., Warden New College, Oxford 
-Scott, Rev. F. E., St. Drostane's College, Aberlour, N.B. 

— 2 copies 
Shackleton, Rev. T., Minor Canon, Hereford 
■Shaw, Miss Alice, Winterdyne, Bewdley 
Sidebotham, Rev. J. S., Vicar Aymestrey 
Simpson, Rev. W. Sparrow, D.D., Sub-dean of S. Paul's 

Cathedral 
Sinclair, George R., Esq., Organist Hereford Cathedral 
Slade, Miss F. S., Tenbury 

Smith, Rev. Canon I. Gregory, LL.D , Vicar Great Malvern 
Smith, Rev. S. Lidderdale, Treasurer and Canon Residentiary, 

Hereford 
Smith, Rev. Prebendary T. Ayscough, Vicar Tenbury 



Usborne, Mrs. T., Bradfield, Reading 



Venables, Rev. Edmund, Precentor, Lincoln 



Wade, Miss, 5, Canada Place, Walmer 

Walker, Charles, Esq., Highfield Hill, Upper Norwood 

Walkei, Mrs. Severn, Malvern Wells 

Walmisley, Rev. Horatio, Rector IfHey, Oxford— 3 copies 

Wardle, T., Esq.. Leek, Staffordshire 

Ware, Rev. J. M., Rector Ullingswick 

Warner, Rev. Prebendary, Vicar Clun, Salop 

Weare, Mrs., Hampton Bishop — 2 copies 

Webster, J. Baddeley, Esq., Victoria Street, Shrewsbury 

Wheeler, Rev. T. Littleton, Bromwich House, Worcester 

White, Mr. W., Woodhampton, Stourport 

Whitaker, Rev. G. F., Canon Residentiary, Hereford 

Whitefoord, Rev. Philip, Rector Pixley, Ledbury 

Wickes, Rev. John D., Boughton, Northampton 

Willets, Rev. C. E., D.D., King's College, Windsor, Nova 

Scotia 
Williams, E. W. Colt, Esq., Hagley Hall, Rugeley 
Williams, F. L., Esq., Academy Street, Elgin 
Williams, Miss Ellen, 26, Broad Street, Hereford 
Williams, Mrs. K., Bryngwyn, Oswestry 
Wilmot, Miss, Warley Place, Great Warley, Essex 
Wood, Rev. W., D.D., Vicar Cropredy, Leamington 
Wood, Mrs., 16, S. Nicholas Square, Hereford 
Woollam, Rev. J., Rector Burton-le-Coggles, Grantham 
Wright, Alfred, Esq., 36, Ladbroke Square, W. 
Wright, Arthur, Esq., Kensington Palace Mansions 
Wurtzburg, J. H., Esq., 2, De Grey Road, Leeds 



Contents* 



I. Early Years, by his Sister 

II. Newspaper Notes and Letters ... 

III. Pulpit Utterances 

IV. Congress and Academy Papers ... 
V. Reminiscences 

VI. Compositions 

VII. St. Michael's College and Staff 



45 
52 

58 

66 

.64, 72 



Errata. 

_<— 

Page 9, line 36, read Danes Barrington. 
., II ,, 42 ,, sufferer. 
„ 35 .. 2 3. .. ho '»- 



\ 



61 



La B/ache. 



3nt>ey. 



_<>- 



Ayrton, Mr 

Barrett, Dr. Alexander 

Bartlett, W. E 

Bethel, Miss ... 

" Birmingham Mail "... 

Body, Rev. Canon 

Bennett, Rev. J. 

Bull, Rev. Canon 

Boyle, Earl of Glasgow 

Barnard, Sir A 

Bishop, Sir H 

Beddoe, H. C 

Bennett, Rev. W. J 

Berriot, Mons. De 

Berriot, Mons. De 

Burghersh, Lord 

Bury, Lady Charlotte 

" Church Review " 

" Church Times " 

Colborne, Dr. L. 

Cooper, Mr. George 

Corfe, Dr 

Corfe, Rev. C. J., Bishop of Corea ... 
Cramer, J. 

Crest of Sir F. O. 

Crispin, A. Trevor 

Crotch, Dr 

" Court Journal " 

" Daily Chronicle " 

"Daily News" 

" Daily Telegraph " 

Ella, Professor .. 

Elvey, Sir G., M.D 

Elvey, Stephen, M.I' 

Emiliani 

Evans, Rev. Dr 

Gainsford, Dean 

Grove, Sir G. 

Goss, Sir J. 

Hackman, Rev. Precentor 

Hamilton, Duchess of .. 

Hampden, Bishop 

Hampton, Rev. J., on Memory of Sir F. 

Harwood, Mr. Basil 

Havergal, Rev. H. E 

Havergal, Lieut. Arthur 

Haynes, Dr 

Hereford, Lord Bishop of 
Hereford, Very Rev. Dean of ... 

" Hereford Times " 

Higgs, Marcellus 

Hill, Rev. E 

Hingston, Tuner of Instruments 
Huntingford, Rev. Canon 
Hutchinson, Mr. \V. H. 



PAGE. 
9 

63 
18 

9 

14 

48 

. 38, 61 

40 

40 

10 

23 

• 65 

3 

9 

10 

10 

62 



15 
16, 39, 45 

...21, 65 
40 

.■•38, 43 
71 
9 
25 
70 
43 
17 

17 
18 
19 

52 

...60, 65 

-•38, 43 

9 

3 

...40, 45 

.. 67 

11, 60, 61 

... 38 

... 7, 10 

22 

11 

62 

-•37. 61 

37 

43 

... 48 

... 69 

...20, 41 

...38, 40 

44 

9 

16 

... 69 



' ' Illustrated London News " 
Ince, Rev. Professor 

Joyce, Rev. J. & Rev. J. W. ... 
Juleff, C. E 

La Blache 

Lloyd, Edmund... 

Logier, Prof. J. B 

N.M.L., Letter from " a friend" 



Macfarren, Sir G. 
Malibran 

Marshall, Dr 

Mendelssohn 

" Modern Truth " 
Monk, Dr. E. G. 
" Morning Post ,: 
Morris, Rev. M. 
Murray, Hon. Charles ... 
Musgrave, Rev. Canon . . . 
" Musical Opinion " 
" Musical Standard " ... 
" Musical Times " 



PAGE. 




24 




48 


•••43. 


44 




42 




61 




62 




7 




43 




55 




9 




61 




62 




39 


22, 28, 


59 




25 




59 




bi 




46 


...25. 


, 40 


... 26, 


, 42 


31. 36 


. 43 



Newspaper Extracts (in alphabetical order) ... 11 
Norris, William 37.42 



O'Connor, Mr. M. S. 

Oakeley, Sir II 

Ouseley, Sir F., Collection of Music ... 

Compositions of 

Endowment Fund ... 

Memorial in Cathedral 

Monogram 

Operas by 

Portrait and chair of. . . 



" Pall Mall Gazette " 

Phillips, Henry 

Prout, Ebenezer 

Precentor, Letter by a Cathedral 



25 
58 
70 

. 66, 68 
70 

• 69 
62 
67 
69 



33 
37 
14 
60 



Queen, Her Majesty the 



Rejected M.B. at Oxford 
Rich, Rev. Canon J- 




11 

61 


Sinclair, Mr. G. R. 




7' 


Sir Herbert Oakeley ... 
Smart, Sir G 




36, 42 

10 


Smith, Rev. Prebendary T. A. 
Smith, Rev. Canon Lidderdale 


49 

47 


Southgate, Mr. T. L. ... 
Spark, William, Dr. 
Stainer, Sir J. ... 
Stewart, Sir R. . . . 




29. 31. 58. 71 

41 

39. 55 

21, 62 



VII. 



"St. James's Gazette 
St. Michael's Church, 



Consecration of 

Choir on Opening Day 

Organist and Organ of 

Dimensions of. 

Proceedings on Annual 

Festival 

Warden and Fellows of 



PAGE. 

41 

64 
64 

65 
70 



70 
72 



Taylor, Rev. J. R. G. ... 
" Tenbury Advertiser "... 

In Memoriam 

Terra Cotta — Verses by 

"The Artist" 

" The Athenaeum " 

"The Globe" 

"The Guardian" 



20. 35 

11 

3 

45 

13 

13 

37. 40 

19. 39 



"The Hawk" 

" The Lock-to-Lock Times " 
"The Piccadilly" 
"The Record" ... 
"The Society Herald' 
"The Times" ... 
"The World" .. 



Upton, General 

Warrender, Sir G. 
Wichsel, Mons. de 
White, Rev. Preb. 
Wilberforce, Bishop S. 
Willis, Mr., Organ Builder 
Wood, Rev. William, D.D.- 
Woodyer, — , Architect... 



' In Memoriam '' 



PAG E. 

20 
25 
34 
34 
37 
34. 35 
39 



10 
10 

45 
16 

65 
45 

70 




fl>refatoriP Bote. 



.<►<►- 




JN old friend of the beloved and lamented Sir Frederick Ouseley 
has collected these fragments respecting his early life, also 
the utterances of the press soon after his decease, with other 
information, as a slight memorial of personal regard. 

It is hoped that this collection will interest both his private 
friends and the musical profession, and be useful as a basis for some 
future biography. There is necessarily much repetition, but the object 
is to show how widely he was known and appreciated, not only for 
his musical genius, but for his many sterling qualities. 

The accompanying portrait, taken recently by Mr. T. Jones, 
5, Broad Street, Ludlow, is considered by many friends to be an excellent 
and pleasing likeness. 



3n flDemoriam. 



FREDERICK ARTHUR GORE OUSELEY, 

Priest ; Baronet. 

BORN AUGUST 12, 1825. 
DIED APRIL 6, 1889. 



"Bus Ibe sball give Ibia Hiujels charge concerning tbec, anS in tbeir 
banfce tbes sball bear tbee up." 



►£< 



BORN in Grosvenor Square, on August 12th, 1825, 
Sir Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, 
only son of Sir Gore Ouseley, and his only successor 
in the Baronetcy, departed to his well-earned rest 
on April 6th, 1889, in the City of Hereford. He 
was the first Vicar and Warden of St. Michael's 
College, of which he was the founder ; Professor of 
Music in the University of Oxford from 1854, and 
Precentor of Hereford Cathedral from 1855, and 
Canon Residentiary from 1886. Many notices of 
him have already appeared : we would now write 
of him from a point of view outside the path which 
has, as yet, been traversed. We venture to add a 
few words on some points in his character. His 
life was one of self-sacrifice. He lived and died 
unmarried, and had known no partner of his cares 
and sorrows, in the usual sense of the word. But 
in this very self-sacrifice, and therefore care for and 
thought of others, was the secret of his happiness. 
He was never so happy as when doing a kindness, 
which he did with the very same good will to the 
poorest of his parishioners or other neighbours as to 
the most intimate friend. He was a many sided man. 
He was best known as one of the most highly 
accomplished musicians, and music may be said to 
have been his speciality, and the promotion of Church 
music as one of the great objects of his life ; and 
that, from the one motive of the desire for the glory 
of GOD. His piety was deeply seated and sincere, 
but unostentatious ; a strong point in it being summed 
up in the title of one of the earlier St. Michael's-day 
sermons (a memorable series if they could be collected) 
by his old and intimate friend, the late Rev. A. B. 
Evans, D.D., "The interest of angels in the salva- 
tion of men." It was the hold which this subject 
had on his mind which led to the dedication of the 
beautiful Church and College, which he has left as 



his standing, memorial, St. Michael and All Angels' ; 
and it was his love of the young which induced 
him to sink so large a part of his fortune in securing 
this provision at once for the spiritual needs of a 
poor district formed into a. parish out of Tenbury, 
Leysters, and Middleton-on-the-Hill, and for giving 
a free education to eight, and all but free education 
to eight more, sons of necessitous gentlemen, with a 
preference for sons of clergy. It was with a know- 
ledge of this spiritual necessity of the district adjacent 
to his own property, together with the collapse of 
the St. Barnabas Choir, Pimlico, on the resignation 
of that church and of St. Paul's, Knightsbridge, by 
the late Rev. W. J. E. Bennett, in 1851, which 
put it into his heart to found and carry out the 
scheme which passed from his hands to others on 
the 6th inst. St. Michael's Church and College are 
far too well known to need more than a passing 
reference to the beauty of their buildings and sur- 
roundings, the devout character of their choral 
services, their valuable collection of books and 
music, their genial hospitality, and the attachment 
to the College, and above all to its Warden, of 
all who were members of it or who came within its 
influence. When he was laid to his rest on Thurs- 
day, the nth instant, short as was the notice, no 
less than twenty-one of those who had been boys 
under his care in St. Michael's, or in the School 
which preceded it at St. Barnabas', Pimlico, and 
at Langley Marish, followed him to his resting place 
in the churchyard of St. Michael's. 

Who shall say that the work of such a man, 
because he has not been able to finish all that was 
in his heart to do for the glory of God and for the 
good of men, is incomplete ! He has finished the 
work that God gave him to do. ' ' He rests from his 
labours, and r 



1bfs worfes oo follow bim." 



account of tbe earl\> ^eare of 
tfieoericfc a. <5. ©useles, \>y 
bis eloest sister. 



The composer of the airs contained in the 
following pages* is the only surviving son of 
the Right Honble. Sir Gore Ouseley, of Hall 
Barn Park, co. Bucks, Bart., G.C.H., K.L.S., 
and K.S.A., and of Harriet Georgina, his 
wife. He was born in Grosvenor Square, 
London, on the 12th of August, 1825, and 
christened in May, 1826, by the names of 
Frederick, Arthur, Gore. Sponsors, His 
Royal Highness Frederick, Duke of York 
and Albany, and Arthur, Duke of Wellington; 
his Godmothers Frances, Marchioness of 
Salisbury, and Mary Jane Ouseley, his 
eldest sister. 

At the early age of three months he 
shewed not only a very unusual love for 
music, but even the power of distinguishing 
particular tunes, listening attentively to every 
air his sisters played, but more earnestly 
marking his approbation of Weber's waltz 
in the Freischutz by various kickings in his 
nurse's arms and other strange exertions. 
When suffering the greatest pain from 
teething, an air on the pianoforte was sure 
to stop his crying, and he probably thus 
increased his love for music by being in- 
dulged in it whenever pain or illness called 
for its soothing consolation. His ear was 
constructed in so extraordinary a manner, 
that long before he could speak, he took 
up airs with his voice precisely in the same 
key in which they had been played or sung 
to him, at even a long interval after they had 
ceased. 

At the age of seventeen months he could 
sing any air to which his ear was familiarized, 
without any assistance from others, or from 
the instrument, and on trial it was found 
invariably pitched in the key in which it 
was usually played or sung, and every note 
in perfect tune. 

* The collection of early compositions is not 
included in the small MS. volume which supplied 
the following account. It is not known where it 
is to be found. 



When two years old his sisters and their 
governess were astonished to perceive that 
often when standing on their left hand while 
they were playing on the pianoforte, his little 
hand fell as it were instinctively on the 
Dominants and Tonics, and even when they 
changed the key to puzzle him, he changed 
his tonics and dominants also without ever 
making a false chord. From this period 
may be dated his incipient love of harmony, 
although the hands not being able to cover 
a sufficient number of the keys necessarily 
restricted him to melody, unless when he 
took the bass part of another player's treble, 
in which he acquitted himself in a surprising 
manner. 

The first number of the following airs 
will shew that he commenced composing in 
regular measure and rhythm at about three 
years of age. This was effected by his voice, 
whilst he imitated the motions of playing 
with his fingers on the window. One of his 
sisters hastened to commit to paper the first 
part of this Sauteuse, which was all that he 
had then composed, and when written out, 
after some interval, she begged he would 
add a second part. This he instantly com- 
plied with, and in a surprising manner 
completed it in 'the same key as the first 
part, although some time had elapsed between 
the two compositions. 

Numberless were the instances he now 
daily showed of the wonderful accuracy of 
his ear, and as he knew the names of the 
notes on the instrument (tuned to concert 
pitch) his ear retained the intervals so that 
he could at once tell what the tone was of 
any noise he heard ; sometimes it thundered 
in G, and the wind whistled in D, and in- 
variably when anyone ran to the instrument 
for proof of his assertions, they found him 
quite correct. In the tone of most bells 
there is a second tone perceptible to an acute 
ear, which did not escape little Frederick's 
observation, for one day when walking out 
with his nurse, Mrs. Barlow, he happened 
to be near the coachhouse when the clock 
over it struck, on which he said, " Do you 
know, Ba (as he usually called her) the clock 
has struck in B fiat minor?" The poor 
woman could not conceive what he meant, 
but reported it to his mother, who took 
pains to ascertain the fact, and found to 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



her great surprise when the clock next struck 
that its double tone was in the key of B flat 
minor. 

At Brighton one evening an ambulant 
band of wind instruments stopped to play 
under the windows ; when they had con- 
cluded their first air, his father asked him 
what key they had been playing in, to which 
he at once replied, " Why, Papa, it is a kind 
of F, but neither F natural nor F sharp," 
and on his father's going to the pianoforte in 
the next room he found that the child had 
stated the fact, it being a quarter of a tone 
too sharp for one, and as much too flat for 
the other. This occurred in 1830, when the 
child was four years old. 

About the same period the Countess de 
Montalembert begged of Lady Ouseley to 
give her copies of a few of the little boy's 
compositions for a very musical friend. That 
friend was the Duchess of Hamilton, certainly 
the most accomplished musician and singer 
ever known amongst English amateurs. 

The compositions were copied and sent, 
and in a month or two the Countess received 
a letter from the Duchess, of which the 
following is an extract : — 

Holyrood Palace, 

December ist, 1830. 

I cannot tell you how much I think of the wonderful 
child, my dear friend. I have been amusing myself 
putting basses to and making variations upon his 
delightful compositions, and I should be laughed at 
could people know how much the occupation affects 
and enchants me. Dear little darling ! how could he 
imagine such touching tones at four years old ? And 
yet why should not the Soul triumph at the earliest 
age? It is a beautiful proof of its divine nature. 
Pray tell me what kind of a looking child my petite 
passion is. I quite long to see and to hear him, and 
were he within any reasonable distance, I would fly 
to his pianoforte side. He stands, I think you said, 
to play. When did he begin music ? and does 
other people's performance interest and please him ? 
I wish there were good likenesses of him, I would 
ask to beg, borrow, or steal one for me. Oh, what 
I would give to have such a child ! No wonder Sir 
Gore and Lady Ouseley worship him ! Does he 
enjoy good health ? I hope they don't excite his 
musical feelings too much. I know something about 
that, and certainly few things produce such an electric 
effect on the nerves as some combinations of harmony. 
I have often made myself ill by listening to certain 
chords. Oh, the dear child ! His image haunts me. 
I love him for having appreciated you, and I flatter 
myself we shall prove great friends some day or 
other. One more question — Is he childish in manner, 
and does he seem happy ? 



On a further supply of the little boy's com- 
positions being sent to her Grace through 
the same channel, she writes : — 

I am equally astonished and enchanted with Sir 
Gore Ouseley's child's talent. Pray tell Sir Gore 
I hope and trust I shall one day have the happiness 
of hearing this second Mozart. Oh, the darling 
child ! Heaven bless and preserve him. 

But although some of the airs sent 
to the Duchess of Hamilton were simple 
melodies, yet the dates of compositions in 
the following sheets will prove that even 
in his fourth year he had an unusual 
knowledge of harmony. During the short 
sejour of the family at Brighton he made 
several discoveries of harmonies until then 
new to him, and although his parents and 
sisters (from apprehensions of his health 
suffering, or his head being affected by it) 
cautiously forbore giving him the smallest 
instruction in music either practical or 
theoretical, further than telling the names 
of the chords (when he asked them) which, 
he had by himself discovered, he still seemed 
by intuition to be versed in the most abstruse 
mysteries of harmony and modulation, so as 
to excite the astonishment of the most 
eminent amateurs and professional musicians 
then in Brighton, who even tried him in 
modulating from very extreme keys. Amongst 
the former I venture to mention the name of 
Mr. Solomon, the famous double bass player 
(second only to the celebrated Dragonetti) 
and amongst the latter that pleasing maestro, 
Signor Gaboussi, and Signor Borgatta, the 
wonderful improvisatore on the pianoforte. 

To give the reader of these hasty memo- 
randa some idea of the manner in which this 
inspired child spoke of his harmonies, whilst 
it at the same time proves the delightful 
childishness of disposition, so much wished 
to be found in him by the Duchess of 
Hamilton, the following dialogue between 
him and his eldest sister is copied from a 
memorandum made at the time ; it took place 
at Brighton in 1830, and is given in his own 
phraseology ; his questioner was his eldest 
sister : — 

Janie. Boy, how did you modulate in going from 
C to D flat minor ? 

Fredk. I took the chord of Ab with the 9th, you 
know, Janie, the minished 7th. 

Janie. Why did you first strike the chord of C 
minor before you went to Ab ? 



SIX F. A. GORE OUSELEY. 



Fredk. Because I thought it sounded pretty. 
Janie. Why pretty ? 

Faedk. Because there was one note of one chord 
in it, and one note of the other. 

In these last two replies, how clearly he 
has demonstrated the necessity of what the 
Masters term combination in modulating from 
one key to another (that the chord you go 
to must have at least one note in common 
with the chord you go from) dictated by 
Nature more true even than Art, and couched 
in the childish, but beautifully expressive 
answer, "because I thought it sounded 
pretty." It tends to prove that everything, 
however artful and abstruse it may appear 
in Science, originates with Nature, which the 
handmaid Art developes, dresses, and fixes 
under laws and regulations, for here Nature, 
and Nature alone, whispered to a child of four 
years and three months, that he must not 
jump from one chord to another without 
having some note, as a bond of union, com- 
mon to both. 

All this gifted boy's replies bore the same 
character of simplicity and charming childish- 
ness, although always direct to the point. 
When asked to go from Btt to Cb, he 
immediately remarked that they were the 
same note, innocently giving as a reason that 
" there was no black note between them on 
the pianoforte." 

He was one day (in 1831) playing the 
cadence of D, and after repeating it two or 
three times he dwelt upon the following 



chord of the added 6th 



# 



£ 



In the August of that year, Sir Gore 
Ouseley received a letter, of which the fol- 
lowing is an extract, from the celebrated 
John Baptist Logier, Esq., Professor of Music 
and Originator of a System of Musical In- 
struction, which met with merited success in 
England and Ireland (although more qualified 
in the former), but most particularly in Prussia, 
where it triumphed over opposition and ob- 
tained royal and ministerial protection and 
patronage 

Mr. Logier had given instructions when in 
England to Sir Gore Ouseley, and subse- 
quently to his two daughters in the theory 
of music, but at the time this letter was 
written he was residing in Dublin, where he 
had for three or four years taught his system 
in an academy filled with pupils. 

[copy.] 

Dublin, 

August 25, 1831. 
Dear Sir, 

Miss Ouseley has just sent for my perusal the 
last productions of the young musician. No. 154 
in C minor is really a very elegant and pathetic 
little composition. I had almost said (considering 
the infantine source from whence these effusions have 
flowed) that they are too plaintive. Whilst I was 
playing them over tears involuntarily started into my 
eyes. The merry little strain, however, which 
follows immediately after in C major sets all to 
rights again. The three pieces which are in minor 
keys are by far the best which the little musician 
has written as yet. This proves (if anything were 
necessary to prove it) how truly this child is gifted 
with genuine musical feeling. Let us look at bars 



and 



p^ 



asked what it meant. His sister purposely 
delayed giving an answer, when, after trying 
both G and E in the Bass, he decided, quite 
unaided, that it was not the chord of E minor. 
In the course of the year 1831, his com- 
positions, as will be seen in the following 
pages, assume a character of sweet pathos 
in the melody, and uncommon harmonies 
in the bass, much beyond what could have 
been expected, and, one might perhaps add, 
beyond the efforts of any other natural 
untaught genius, who had not completed his 
fourth year. 



m 



13 and 14 of No. 159 (fj) ( =£= What 

^ rrr'-f" 

true feeling ! Perhaps I may see more in these two 
bars than others do ; yet I know what I am saying. 
Excuse these few hasty lines, my dear Sir, I could 
not resist the temptation of giving my opinion of the 
little musician's effusions for they have given me 
real pleasure. May I beg to present my best regards 
to the little composer, whom I shall soon have the 
pleasure of seeing. 

I am, my dear Sir, 

Your very obliged humble Servant. 

(Signed) J. B. LOGIER. 

This testimony from such an acknowledged 
good judge proves the proficiency that the 
little Frederick had made both in his choice 
of melodies, as well as harmonies, previously 
to having entered on his fifth year. 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



The uncommon beauty of the two bars 
alluded to by Mr. Logier (where breaking off 
suddenly from harmonic accompaniment the 
youthful composer indulges in four notes 
of unison in treble and bass, emphatically 
pronounced) had already attracted the atten- 
tion and admiration of the whole Fanatici 
family. In fact it was as much the 
introduction of those unisons, as the general 
elegance of the plaintive air itself, that 
induced them to send a copy of it to Mr. 
Logier, without comment. The above letter 
from that excellent Maestro will prove that 
comment was not necessary. 

About a couple of months after he had 
entered his fifth year (October, 1831), whilst 
sitting on the sofa chatting with his mother 
and his younger sister, and apparently 
thinking of anything but music, he suddenly 
started up and said, " Oh ! I know of such a 
pretty chord, I am sure it will sound 
beautiful, do come and listen to it, Leili." 
He then ran, in his usual playful manner, 
and executed the following chords without 
the least hesitation. (See Examples A and B). 

In the course of this year he furnished 
numberless proofs, similar to the above, of 
his wonderful recollection of the intervals 
between the keys of the pianoforte, which 
enabled him to invent harmonies at a 
distance from the instrument; and he has 
often dictated to his sisters, from the 
adjoining room, the component parts of very 
beautiful chords, which, although often very 
uncommon, were always correct. 

In this, his fifth year, hearing his eldest 
sister making use of the chord of the sharp 
sixth whilst modulating, he admired it, 
and asked her the name of it, but took 
no more notice of it at the moment. Some 
three months afterwards he said to her, 
" Janie, I wish you would play that chord 
which I admired so much at Woolmer's, 
I think you called it the sharp seventh." 
She guessed at what he meant, and told him 
she would introduce it in the course of 
modulating, and that when he recognised 
his favourite he was to call out. She 
modulated for some time accordingly, intro- 
ducing the chords of the 7th, 9th, nth, and 
13th; but the moment the sharp sixth was 
pronounced, he called out that it was that 
chord he wanted, and he was then informed 



that it was the sharp sixth, and not the 
seventh, as he had from forgetfulness called 
it. He then played the chord over several 
times, and, to the astonishment of the family, 
called out in great delight that it could 
dissolve (as he then called resolve) into another 
chord. He had been playing the sharp 
6th of A flat (see example C). He then said 
it could go in the chord of C, meaning (see 
example D), which he played quite correctly. 
Every one present was necessarily much 
surprised at his having made this discovery, 
and his sister asked him if he could find any 
other chord into which it could resolve, when 
before a minute elapsed he discovered the 
following resolution into Ctt by the enhar- 
monic change (see example E). He had 
been only playing the simple e, not b]3, and 
his auditors felt convinced that had he 
been playing the latter, he would have found 
the remaining chord into which he might 
have resolved it. 



H frb ^e^fa 




5-t 



bb kf> 



-e>- 



4 



Be K 
B 



fe frop j fl 



^r 



-ep 



TT 



T~r 



m 



-b— l ^rr 



-Q — h 



b 7 




D 



=§= 



:§T 



35: 



»-©>- 



SIR F. A. GORE OUSELEY. 




#= 



-**§r 



I 



^B 



Mr. Hingston, the tuner of our instruments, 
once made trial of Frederick's ear in a 
manner that he said had hitherto puzzled 
the most competent musicians. Whilst 
tuning a square piano, he tuned the wire 
of one note exactly one note higher than the 
other wire, and then sounding three or four 
notes consecutively, asked the child the 
name of each note, which was correctly 
answered until he came to the untuned note, 
which, when asked, he unhesitatingly said, 
"It is E, but I see D in it," to the great 
astonishment of Mr. Hingston. He generally 
tried the instruments when fresh tuned, 
and found out the smallest fault; but the 
tuner deprecated his criticism by saying, 
" Pray, Master Frederick, don't be severe." 

About the same period, as he was sitting 
between two young ladies, his papa happened 
to have a bad cold, when he said to them, 
"Only think, papa blows his nose in G," 
which occasioned a roar of laughter. 

His talent at improvising or extempore 
playing was extraordinary beyond all descrip- 
tion. The thoughts seemed to flow faster 
than his small hands had the power of 
executing them,' and often has he been 
observed by the family, after many fruitless 
endeavours with his two hands to give 
utterance to the beautiful fancies floating in 
his brain, to give the aid of his fine and 
extensive voice to his already overburthened 
fingers, with happy and singular effect. 

Before he completed his fifth year he sang 
many beautiful and impassioned melodies, 
which he accompanied with both hands in 
the fullest and most varied harmony,— some- 
times in triplets, somtimes in Arpeggio,— and 
always introducing false cadences, sevenths, 
ninths, and other chords the most recherches. 

Here the biography terminates. 



The following, written on two fragments, 
appears to have been notes for the continuation 
of the narrative. 

Date of his singing Frere Jaques. 

1833. Contending with his father at the 
Philharmonic Concert that a Symphony of 
Mozart's was in A minor instead of G minor, 
and Sir Gore finding the next day from 
Mons. de Beriot, Malibran, and others, that 
the instruments were tuned half a note sharp 
in consequence of the great heat affecting the 
wind instruments. 

1833. Discovering that Miss Bethel's 
pianoforte was tuned flatter than concert 
pitch, which was confirmed by Sir Gore and 
General Upton, whose violin and tenor were 
in concert pitch, and obliged to be let down 
to the piano. 

1833. Emiliani sounding A and dis- 
covering a harmonic B5 above all the notes 
on the piano. 

1833. Malibran crying nearly to hysterics 
on hearing him improvise and sing his opera. 

1833. Mr. Ayrton asked Sir Gore's per- 
mission to hear Freddy play and sing. It 
was of course granted. After listening to 
his extempore playing and singing, and a 
couple of airs from his miniature opera- 
Mr. Ayrton finally acknowledged to Sir Gore 
that until he had actually seen and heard the 
surprising boy he had not given credit to the 
accounts he had heard of his wonderful 
talents, but that now he could conscientiously 
say that report had not reached anything 
near the truth ; that he had been reading 
Dumis Barrington's accounts of Mozart and 
other musical prodigies (Wesley, Crotch, etc.), 
but that none of them, in his opinion, 
approached the phenomenon which he had 
just witnessed — equivocal chord, etc., etc. 

Rehearsal of Philharmonic — Discovery of 
Key of Mendelssohn's slow movement in 
D minor — J. Cramer's opinion it was E5 
minor — boy right. 



IO 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



Second Rehearsal — Sir G. Smart — difficulty 
of ticket for Leili — facility for Freddy, as he 
was a composer eminent — invitation ac- 
cordingly. 

Concert, Monday, June — Fred discovered 
that the band were quarter tone above concert 
pitch, which was confirmed by Mons. de 
Beriot and Wichsel the next morning, in 
consequence (they said) of the excessive heat 
of the room raising the wind instruments 
above their usual pitch. 

June 26th. Fred played and sang to Mr. 
Ayrton and others his first song and recita- 
tive in his new Opefa of Isola Disabitata of 
Metastasio. Mr. A. said he had Haydn's 
composition on the same words much inferior 
to Fred's, and he considered his as the 
composition of an adult and as such sufficient 
to form the fortune of a composer. 

21 OLetter from tbe SHicbess of 
Ifoamilton. 



April 13TH, 1832. 

I have been to day to hear Sir Gore Ouseley's 
little boy, and never wns I so affected by anything 
in my life. I can find no words to express my 
astonished delight when I saw the little fellow, 
only six years old, si; down to the pianoforte, and 
commence an extemporaneous performance, which 
baffles all description. His large dark eyes lighted 
up, his whole soul seemed intent upon what he was 
about, and yet with all this there was such a genuine 
childish simplicity. I could not say half of what I feel. 

I am afraid this will be thought an exaggeration, 
but I never was an admirer of wonderful children. 
I have seen many who had extraordinary execution 
upon an instrument, but God has given this child 
an intuitive knowledge of the most hidden mysteries 
of sound— a creative power perfectly organized that 
surpasses belief. 

Read the accounts of Mozart's infancy and you 
have read this child's, 

I sat down to the piano, and while his mother 
held him at a distance, I endeavoured to puzzle him 
by the most intricate modulations, but he not only 
instantly named the key I was playing in, but 
followed every change (even when an enharmonic 
transition rendered it almost inappreciable to the ear) 
with the rapidity of thought,— he knew it, but he 
knew not why. 

In the course of playing I struck the chord of the 
sharp 6th— the German 6th as called by some 
writers, and upon resolving it in the usual way he 
started up and cried out "that is the sharp 6th in 



the key of C minor, and I can dissolve it another 
way." He ran to the piano, and without a moment's 
hesitation struck the chord, and proceeded to resolve 
it in a most abstruse but perfectly correct manner, 
and then went on modulating till he brought it back 
to the original key. He played me numbers of 
the airs he had written, all distinguished by the 
exquisite taste and plaintiveness of their character, 
some marches loud and lively with an evident idea 
of orchestral effect in their arrangement ; indeed 
orchestral and dramatic effect pervades every note 
he plays. 

I can never forget the impression this scene made 
upon me. I am not ashamed to say that it affected 
me to tears. 

The little fellow's countenance is a noble one — 
very delicate, with full dark eyes, and a very 
prominent and expansive forehead ; there is every 
promise of genius of the most commanding kind 
about him. 

May he live to be a second Mozart is my sincere 
wish ; may he live to prove that an Englishman can 
excel in the most divine of Sciences as he can in all 
the rest. 



On a fragment written in a smooth neat 
hand. 

"I am equally astonished and enchanted 
about Sir Gore Ouseley's child's talent. Pray 
tell Sir Gore I hope and trust I shall one 
day have the happiness of hearing this second 
Mozart. I shall be delighted to make Lady 
O's acquaintance en attendant. May I beg 
you to thank her for the music which is 
really a curiosity. Oh the darling child ! 
Heaven bless and preserve him ! " 

A newspaper fragment describing a concert 
at the Hanover Square Rooms of the Royal 
Academy of Music, states that there were 
several patrons of the institution present, 
Lord Burghersh, Sir G. Warrender, Sir A. 
Barnard, Sir Gore Ouseley, with his remark- 
ably clever son, who, althought not eight 
years of age, has shewn extraordinary genius 
for musical composition. An interesting 
account of this modern Crotch was given in 
the Harmonicon of last month (May, 1833), 
who, it is stated, improvises entire scenes, 
singing to his own accompaniment, the latter 
exhibiting harmony the most recherche, 
chords that an experienced musician only 
uses with caution. 

The Harmonicon, full-sized 4to. in 11 volumes, 
l82 3"33. 's in the Bodleian. The early composition 
of Sir F. O. is a March in C, in vol. xi. The letter- 
press is in page 102 of the first part, and the music on 
page 100 of the 2nd part of vol. xi. for 1833. 



SIX F. A. GORE OVSELEY. 



Zbe Monberful fllbemors of Sir jf. 
(5. ©usele?. 

CONTRIBUTED BY REV. JOHN HAMPTON. 

At Cambridge, in the year 1861, I heard 
Beethoven's Septett for the first time, and 
on my return mentioned the fact to Sir 
Frederick, who immediately went to the 
piano and commenced the work, pointing 
out each instrument that had any prominent 
part. He played on for twenty minutes and 
then only stopped from fatigue. I told him 
that I wondered that I had never heard him 
play it before. He said that he had never 
done so — had not seen it in print, and only 
heard it once in his life, ten years before at 
Rome. 

When living in London it was his delight 
to visit the organ-lofts of St Paul's and 
Westminster Abbey. After an absence of 
several months in Spain, Italy, Germany, 
Switzerland, and Paris, where he tried every 
organ of any size, he returned to England 
-and soon visited his friend Sir J. Goss, at 
S. Paul's. Sir John asked him to sound C 
which he did; then Sir John put down B, 
which was in perfect tune, whereupon Sir 
Frederick immediately smiled and said "you 
have had all the pipes cut down since I was 
last here." Sir John Goss assured me that 
the pitch of the organ had been raised a 
semitone. 

-$• 

The following anecdote, communicated by 
an old and valued friend, will show the treat- 
ment the Professor was sometimes subjected 

to. 

Did you ever hear of the letter written to 
Ouseley by a man whose Exercise he returned 
as utterly hopeless ? It is to this effect, I 
believe in the very words : — 

" Sir, ' 

" Your rejection of my Exercise confirms 
the opinion I have long entertained of your 
utter incompetence for the office you hold." 

There was another man (Mus. Bac.) re- 
jected for Mus. Doc. who followed Ouseley 
about Oxford weeping copiously for an hour 
or two, and waiting for him at every house 
he went into, till at last he left him in Turl 
Street, escaping when calling on the Rector 
of Exeter, who let him out into Broad Street. 



Bewspaper IRotices 
an& Xetters, in Hpril, 1889. 



From the Tenbury Advertiser. 

It seems that Sir Frederick had been 
staying at his residence in the Cathedral 
Close, Hereford, for the past ten days, and 
on Saturday afternoon he intended to go 
for a walk, but subsequently changed his 
mind, probably owing to the threatening 
aspect of the weather. He appears, however, 
to have called at the City and County Club 
in Broad Street, but did not remain there 
more than a minute or so. He then pro- 
ceeded towards his residence, and when near 
the Free Library he met Prebendary Hawk- 
shaw, of Weston-under-Penyard. This was 
about three o'clock. They stood conversing 
together for a few seconds, when Sir Frederick 
was suddenly seized with spasms of the heart, 
which gave him great agony. With the 
assistance of Mr. Hawkshaw he crossed the 
road. Mr. Kenrick, the manager of the 
Birmingham, Dudley, and District Bank, was 
standing some twenty yards from his private 
door, when a lady called his attention to 
Sir Frederick, who was leaning on an iron 
post supported by Mr. Hawkshaw, and 
appearing to be in great agony, being nearly 
doubled up. Mr. Kenrick went to them and 
assisted Mr. Hawkshaw to get Sir Frederick 
into the private office of the bank, where he 
was placed in a seat. The pain continued to 
be so severe that the sufferer leaned forward 
in the chair and groaned. He could not 
speak for some time, but subsequently said 
it was like a knife going through him. Mr. 
Hawkshaw then went for Doctor Turner who 
went immediately to the bank. The deceased's 
servant was also fetched to whom he said 
" I am so glad you have come to help me 
home." Mr. Kenrick gave the suffer some 
brandy, and Doctor Turner administered two 
doses of ether and brandy, after whieh the 
patient seemed to rally, the pain being greatly 
reduced, he began to chat in his usual affable 
manner. He said, several times, "I thought 
I was going to die." He talked for about 
ten minutes after the restoratives had been 
administered, and the doctor said, " You are 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



better now," and he replied "Yes, I am very 
much better, I shall be all right in a few 
minutes." He mentioned that he was to 
have dined at the Deanery that evening, but 
Doctor Turner said that it would not be 
possible to do so. He was immediately 
seized with an epileptic fit, and Mr. Turner 
promptly shook him, cut open his collar 
and shirt band, and asked Mr. Kenrick to 
turn him over on his face, Mr. Kenrick 
had him in his arms, and had half turned 
him over when he suddenly ceased to breathe. 
Mr. Turner states that Sir Frederick had 
suffered from a weak heart for a long time, 
and recently he had been subject to spasms 
of the heart. The attack on Saturday after- 
noon was undoubtedly the severest he had 
had, but the immediate cause of death was 
the epileptic fit. The body was reverently 
conveyed in a cab to the deceased Canon's 
residence ; and the sad news was at once 
forwarded by telegraph to St. Michael's, and 
was a terrible shock to all at the College. 
The news when received in Tenbury was 
scarcely credited at first, and evoked the 
greatest sorrow. The Rev. J. Hampton 
went to Hereford on Monday to make 
arrangements for the interment. The coffin 
containing the body arrived at Tenbury 
station on Wednesday evening, a funeral 
service having been held in the Cathedral 
the same day. It was conveyed in a hearse 
to St. Michael's, where it was placed in the 
College Library. When the hearse passed 
through Tenbury the St. Mary's church bell 
was tolled, and there were general signs of 
mourning observable. It is certain that no 
event which has taken place in our midst 
has called forth such genuine signs of sorrow 
as the one under notice. Shutters were 
closed and blinds drawn ; and the same 
signs of mourning could be seen on the 
whole route to St. Michael's Church. The 
coffin rested on a bier, covered by a purple 
pall, in the centre of the Library, and was 
surrounded by lovely floral wreaths and 
crosses, sent by lamenting friends from 
far and near — 87 in number. Some of these 
bore marked witness to the great loss sus- 
tained by several societies through the death 
of this accomplished musician, such as : — 
" A tribute of affectionate regard and lasting 
veneration from the Members of the Oxford 



Philharmonic Society." "A token of affection 
and esteem from the Members'of the Oxford 
University Musical Club." " In loving and' 
reverent memory from the Custos and Vicars 
of the College of Vicars Choral, Hereford." 
The coffin, of pannelled English oak, with 
massive brass fittings, was made by Messrs., 
Pritchard, Berrington Heath, who, with the 
assistance of Mr. G. E. Wheeler and Mr. 
W. Grove, carried out all the arrangements 
with the greatest care. The day, although 
rain had been falling in the morning, turned 
out fine, and long before the time fixed for 
the service — three o'clock — many were wend- 
ing their way to the church to pay the last 
tribute of regard to him whose loss they 
mourned. There could not have been less 
than 500 people present. Mr. W. J. Lancaster, 
the organist of St. Michael's, played short 
solemn voluntaries at intervals before the 
service. Shortly before three o'clock the 
procession formed in the corridor near the 
Library. The Bishop headed the procession, 
his pastoral staff being borne by the Rev. 
Cyril Edwards (a former pupil at the College). 
The Bishop was succeeded by about thirty 
clergy in surplices, and a large number of 
other friends and clergy. The body was 
borne by six parishioners, and was followed 
by the two chief mourners, General Ouseley 
and Mr. Joseph Ouseley (cousins of the 
deceased) ; then the executors and trustees, 
the Sub-Warden of the College, the Head 
Master, the Honorary Fellows, the Choir, 
former Members of the College, the Medical 
Officer, the tenantry, the matron and the 
butler, and the maid and men-servants. The 
Provincial Grand Master of the Freemasons 
of Worcestershire was represented by Mr. 
G. R. Godson ; and nearly all the members 
of the St. Michael's Lodge (of which deceased 
was a member and one of the founders) were 
present. The Dean and Chapter of Worcester 
were represented by the Precentor. The 
Herefordshire Philharmonic Society, of which 
deceased was President, was represented 
by Mr. J. H. Arkwright, the Hon. Secretary. 
The procession entered the church by the 
west door, where the Bishop read the opening 
sentences of the burial service, and the 
procession having moved up the centre or 
the church and the coffin placed in front of 
the Chancel screen, Psalm xxxix. was chanted 



S/Ji F. A. GORE OUSELEY. 



i3 



to Purcell's chant in G. minor. Then the 
Bishop read, with great earnestness, St. Paul's 
stirring address on the resurrection of the 
body. " Jerusalem on high," a favourite 
hymn (taken from the oratorio of Hagar), 
was sung. During the singing of these verses 
the thoughts of many were carried back to 
the time (only so recent) when the well-known 
form of Canon Ouseley occupied his stall, 
and the thrilling accents of his clear voice 
echoed through the sacred edifice. As the 
body was being borne out of the church 
which love for his Master and fellow-creatures 
had prompted him to build, the mournful 
strains of the Dead March in Saul were 
played on the organ. The grave was made 
in the nicely-kept churchyard, under the east 
window of the chancel, and was very taste- 
fully adorned with primroses and violets by 
Mr. Thomas Hunt, the parish schoolmaster, 
and Mr. J. Biidinger. The flowers and moss 
in which they were set were gathered in the 
parish by the children of the school. The 
procession having arrived at the grave, and 
the body deposited therein, the concluding 
portion of the burial service was said by the 
Bishop. The hymn, "They come, God's 
messengers of love," was then impressively 
sung in a low tone to a tune especially written 
by Sir F. Ouseley for the dedication festival of 
St. Michael's Church ; the Bishop pronounced 
the benediction, and the large concourse dis- 
persed after taking a brief look at the last 
resting place of him whom they loved so 
well, comforted by the thought that one of 
those messengers, who, at God's bidding, 

" Ever post o'er sea and land," 

had attended his pure spirit in its journey 
to its rest, and that beyond the dark doors 
of the grave lies a bright mustering-ground. 
The musical portion of the service was con- 
ducted by the Rev. J. Hampton, and the choir 
was augmented by the whole of the clerical 
and lay members of Hereford Cathedral choir, 
four choristers from Worcester Cathedral 
choir, and a number of musical friends of 
the deceased Baronet. 



while standing outside the Hereford Bank 
was seized with sudden illness. Medical aid 
was summoned, but he died in the bank 
premises within an hour of the attack. He 
had been suffering from an affection of the 
heart. Sir Frederick Ouseley, who was born 
in London in 1825, evinced remarkable 
musical precocity and is credited with having 
composed an opera at the age of eight. He 
was educated at Oxford, where in 1854 he 
took the degree of Doctor of Music, his 
" exercise'' being the oratorio of " St. Poly- 
carp," which, it will be remembered, was 
revived at the Hereford Festival last year. In 
1856 he was appointed Vicar and afterwards 
Warden of St. Michael's College, Tenbury, 
in which music forms a prominent feature of 
the curriculum. Here he founded an ex- 
ceedingly valuable and extensive musical 
library, containing about 4,000 volumes, and 
including many rare scores. Sir Frederick 
Ouseley was appointed Professor of Music 
at Oxford in 1855, succeeding in that im- 
portant post the late Sir Henry Bishop. He 
composed a vast quantity of anthems and 
church music of all kinds, and was the author 
of several treatises on music. 



From The Artist. 
SIR F. GORE OUSELEY. 
On 6th April the Rev. Sir F. Gore Ouseley, 
Canon Residentiary in Hereford Cathedral, 



From the Athenaum. 

By the painfully sudden death last Saturday 
(the 6th) of the Rev. Sir Frederick Arthur 
Gore Ouseley in the sixty-fourth year of his 
age, English music sustains a far heavier loss 
than most people are aware of ; for the late 
baronet was a man of so modest and retiring 
a disposition that few, excepting those who 
had the privilege of his personal acquaintance, 
had any conception of the breadth and depth 
of his musical knowledge, or of his ability 
as a theorist and composer. 

Sir Frederick was born in London on 
August 12th, 1825. He succeeded to the 
title of his father, Sir Gore Ouseley, in 1844. 
He graduated at Oxford (B.A. 1846, M.A. 
1849), and in the latter year he took orders, 
officiating as curate at St. Paul's Church, 
Knightsbridge. From a very early age he 
had shown great talent for music, and in 
1850 he took the degree of Mus. Bac. at 
Oxford, following this by the higher degree 
of Mus. Doc. in 1854. The exercise for this 



14 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



latter degree was the oratorio "St. Polycarp," 
which was performed at the Hereford Festival 
of last year. In 1855 he succeeded Sir 
Henry Bishop as Professor of Music in the 
University of Oxford, a post which he held 
up to the time of his death. In the same 
year he was appointed Precentor of Hereford 
Cathedral; and in 1856 Vicar of St. Michael's, 
Tenbury, and Warden of the College, then 
just founded. 

As a theorist Sir Frederick occupied a 
foremost place among British musicians. 
His work on harmony is one of the best, 
probably the very best, in our language, 
and his treatises on counterpoint and form 
are also of great value. Himself thoroughly 
trained in all the scientific developments o'f 
his art, he held strong views as to the 
necessity to the musician of a sound theoreti- 
cal basis for his studies, and looked with 
aversion on the slipshod methods adopted 
by some modern teachers. He was no 
mere theorist who did not practice what he 
preached. In a letter to the writer of the 
present notice, dated only three days before 
his death, Sir Frederick said : "You may be 
interested to hear that last night I composed 
a strict canon, 12 in 6, before going to bed. 
I have not been doing anything in the 
composing way of late, and I wanted to get 
my hand in a bit ! I do not want to lose 
the power yet." 

While profoundly learned in all the 
mysteries of music, Sir Frederick Ouseley 
was far from being pedantic or dogmatic. 
No man was more ready to give fair con- 
sideration to views conflicting with those 
which he himself held, nor more open to 
conviction if his own opinions could be 
proved untenable. His modesty with regard 
to his own compositions was no less remark- 
able. The present writer well remembers 
how, during a recent visit to Tenbury, Sir 
Frederick showed him an elaborate and 
masterly MS. composition for eight voices 
with orchestral accompaniment, and how, 
after pointing out various intended effects, 
he said, in the most natural and unassuming 
manner, " Do you approve ? " 

As a composer Sir Frederick's great 
characteristic was thoroughness and solidity. 
For this reason the highest rank among his 
works will be taken by the music written 



for the Church. His services and anthems, 
several of which are in eight real parts, are 
worthy of comparison for purity of style and 
elevation of thought with the works of the 
old Italian masters whom he so admired — • 
Colonna, Clari, and others of that school. 
Though far from being dry, his oratorios 
" St. Polycarp " and " Hagar " are probably 
too solid and severe in style to ever achieve 
great popularity : but they are works which 
will command the respect, and in some 
aspects even the admiration, of musicians. 
As an organist Sir Frederick had few superiors, 
and in extempore playing few if any equals. 
To hear him improvise a fugue on a given 
subject was an experience not soon forgotten. 
In his organ playing his affinities were with 
Bach and Mendelssohn rather than with the 
tawdry school of Batiste and We"Iy. 

But it is as a man that the late professor 
will be the most mourned. His personal 
character was singularly pure, amiable, and 
unselfish. He devoted the whole of his 
private fortune to building and endowing 
St. Michael's College, Tenbury — an institution 
for the training of choristers ; and in this, 
perhaps one of the least readily accessible 
places in England, he buried himself, devoting 
himself to the management of the college, 
anxious only to do real good there, and 
careless of the fame and reputation which 
might easily have been his had he chosen 
to seek for them. He was idolized by all 
who were associated with him in his work, 
and his place it will be impossible fully to 
fill. He -often expressed the wish that if it 
pleased God he might die in harness. That 
prayer has been answered. 

Ebenezer Prout. 



From the Birmingham Mail, May 10. 

One who knew Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley 
well furnishes some highly interesting notes 
concerning the late Professor : — His published 
compositions give but a faint idea of his 
powers as a composer, for the finest of his 
works remain in MS. It is to be feared that 
some do not exist on paper at all, and that, 
for example his charming set of fugues on 
the Oxford chimes must remain as memories 
only in the minds of those who are fortunate 



SIR F. A. GORE OUSELEY. 



iS 



enough to have heard him play them. 
Ouseley's skill as an extempore fugue player 
was notorious, and the late Sir George 
Macfarren declared that after his death this 
particular kind of performance in its highest 
sense must be considered almost a lost art. 
But few even of his friends could be aware 
with what labour Sir Frederick had perfected 
himself. " His faculty in counterpoint was 
no doubt partly a natural gift, but it had 
been cultivated with the most assiduous 
practice. For a quarter of a century he 
allowed no day to pass without writing a 
canon, and only four nights before his death 
he amused himself before going to bed by 
composing a strict canon, 12 in 6." Of 
Ouseley's industry as a reader it is said : — 
"His knowledge of music was almost uni- 
versal, and extended from St. Ambrose to 
Wagner. He was a most accomplished 
linguist, and in his magnificent library of 
upwards of 2,000 volumes (besides enormous 
quantities of full scores and other music) 
there was only one book which he had not 
read through. This was a Spanish treatise 
of harmony of Brobdignagian proportions, 
but at the time of his decease he had perused 
seventeen hundred pages of it." 



From the Church Review. 

In 1855, on the death of Sir Henry Bishop, 
he was appointed Professor of Music in the 
University of Oxford, where he speedily 
introduced many much-needed reforms. He 
raised the standard of musical qualifications, 
instituted an arts examination as a necessary 
preliminary to the degree, induced the 
authorities to grant musical degrees honoris 
tausa, and restored the office of Choragus. 
Over the musical life, not only of Oxford, 
but also of Hereford, Sir Frederick Gore 
Ouseley indeed, for upwards of thirty years, 
exercised great and beneficent influence, and 
much of the musical spirit which now exists 
in the University must be attributed to his 
authority and example. In the same year 
that he became Professor at Oxford he was 
appointed Precentor of Hereford. This 
cathedral is on the "old" foundation, and, 
strictly speaking, the precentor is a canon, 



and ranks next to the dean. At Hereford, 
however, the canonry was separated from the 
precentorship, and it was not until 1886 that 
the Bishop of Hereford performed the grace- 
ful act of appointing Sir Frederick to a 
canonry. The deceased baronet was an 
honorary student of Christ Church, received 
the honorary degree of LL.D. at Cambridge 
in 1883 and at Edinburgh in the following year, 
and was proctor for the Chapter of Hereford 
in the Lower House of Convocation. His 
musical compositions have been both nu- 
merous and successful. In r8s3 he published 
two works, " Services and Anthems," and a 
" Collection of Services," and the following 
year his oratorio of "St. Polycarp." His 
other works include many anthems, of which 
the most popular is " How goodly are Thy 
tents, O Israel," and he was the editor of 
two volumes of "Special Anthems for Certain 
Seasons and Festivals of the Church," and of 
the "Sacred Works of Orlando Gibbons," 
and in conjunction with Dr. E. G. Monk, 
" Anglican Psalter Chants." His treatises 
on harmony, on counterpoint, canon, and 
fugue, and on musical form and general 
composition, published in the Clarendon 
Press series, are valuable contributions to 
musical literature, and have taken their place 
as standard works. Sir Frederick Ouseley 
was also the author of a sacred oratorio in 
two parts, " Hagar," the words of which were 
selected from Scripture by the Rev. J. R. G. 
Taylor, and of numerous sermons, lectures, 
&c. He was never married, and by his death 
the baronetcy becomes extinct. — R.I. P. 



The deaths in the week have been very 
numerous, including, besides the Duchess of 
Cambridge, the Marquis of Ely' — whose body 
has been cremated — the third wife of the 
Bishop of Liverpool ; the Rev. Dr. Kennedy, 
Professor of Greek in the University of Cam- 
bridge, a Canon of Ely, and one of the best 
scholars as well as the most successful 
schoolmasters of modern times ; Canon 
Raymond Portal, and the Rev. Sir Frederick 
Gore Ouseley — both immediately connected 
with the early days of Church life at St. 
Paul's, Knightsbridge, and St. Barnabas', 
Pimlico. 



i6 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley combined in 
his own person the characteristics of a perfect 
gentleman, a skilled musician, and a devoted 
Churchman. After being Mr. Bennett's 
curate at St. Paul's, Knightsbridge, he had 
a school a few miles from London, on the 
Great Western Railway, for training boys to 
sing ; but he speedily removed to Tenbury, 
and there built the College of St. Michael, 
where the services were rendered with much 
dignity. Though a highly-respected member 
of Convocation and Professor of Music at 
Oxford, he devoted his life to Herefordshire, 
and either at Tenbury or the cathedral city 
he was constantly hard at work for the 
Church, his speciality, of course, being the 
developing of music as an aid to devotion. 
The late Bishop Wilberforce, in his diary of 
June 30, 1862, recording the re-opening of 
the cathedral, says, " Kindly received at the 
Palace with Claughton. Up early. Com- 
munion fairly attended, but all muddled and 
wrong in the celebration. Old Huntingford 
said by Ouseley, the precentor, to be the 
only canon knowing anything of ritual, and 
he not taking part." 



The munificence of Sir Frederick Ouseley 
was so great that his friends had to protest 
against the way in which he deprived himself 
of the conveniences of life. The late Pre- 
bendary Joyce, who was the lifelong friend 
and neighbour of Sir Frederick, told the 
writer of these lines that the late Bishop of 
Capetown, pleading for help for the Church 
in South Africa in the very thick of the 
Colenso troubles, was informed by the 
deceased that he was so deeply involved 
with pecuniary liabilities connected with St. 
Michael's that he had not a farthing at his 
disposal. Next morning, as the Bishop was 
going, he said, "I cannot refuse you a trifle. 
If you like to sell that stone for your 
mission, do so." It was in a jewel box, and 
the Bishop did not open it till he got to 
London, where, on taking it to a well-known 
jeweller, that worthy said, "I suppose you 
really are a Bishop; why this is a Persian 
stone of the rarest value, the whereabouts of 
which no one has known for years." The 
Bishop was able to satisfy the jeweller of his 
identity, and the stone, which belonged to 
the father of Sir Frederick, so long British 



Minister in Persia and a distinguished 
Orientalist, astounded Bishop Gray by the 
sum it fetched. Sir Frederick was the most 
hospitable of men and genial of hosts, as all 
who have attended the St. Michael's Day 
luncheons and concerts at Tenbury or the 
Hereford festivals could testify. 



From the Church Times, April 12TH 

IN MEMORIAM.' 

We regret to announce the death of the 
Rev. Canon Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, of 
St. Michael's College, the Old Wood, 
Tenbury, which took place suddenly on 
Saturday in the Hereford branch of the 
Birmingham, Dudley, and District Bank. 
He was the only son of the first baronet, the 
Right Hon. Sir Gore Ouseley, G.C.H., 
F.R.S., who was successively Ambassador 
and Minister Plenipotentiary to Persia and 
St. Petersburg, by his marriage with Harriet 
Georgina, daughter of Mr. John Whitelocke, 
and was born in London in August, 1825. 
He early displayed great inclination for the 
study of music, for which, indeed, he 
possessed no common talent. After a 
private school education he was entered 
as a gentleman commoner at Christ Church, 
Oxford. Shortly after he had taken up his 
residence in Oxford his father died, and he 
accordingly, in 1844, succeeded to the title 
as second baronet. Two years later he 
graduated B.A., and in 1849 proceeded to 
his M.A. degree, in which year he was 
ordained a deacon by the Bishop of London, 
and nominated to the curacy of St. Paul's, 
Knightsbridge, which he resigned in the 
latter part of 1850 or the beginning of 185 1. 
The choir of the church was also dispersed, 
but most of these he gathered around him 
at Lovehill House, near Langley Marish, in 
Buckinghamshire. Upon his property at 
Tenbury, known as the Old Wood, he 
erected in 1856 at his own expense the 
beautiful church dedicated to St. Michael 
and All Angels, of which he was the first 
vicar, he having been admitted to priest's 
orders in the preceding year by the Bishop 
of Hereford. He took the degree of Mus. 
Bac. in 1850, and in 1854 that of Mus. 
Doc, and in the same year in which he 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



i7 



became vicar of St. Michael and All Angels 
he was appointed warden of St. Michael's 
College, where he formed a musical library, 
consisting of some 2,000 volumes, which is 
regarded as the most valuable and extensive 
private collection in the kingdom. In 1855, 
on the death of Sir Henry Bishop, he was 
appointed professor of Music in the 
University of Oxford, and the same year 
Precentor of Hereford Cathedral, which 
office he filled till 1886, when he was 
appointed Canon. He was an honorary 
Student of Christ Church, received the 
honorary degree of LL.D. at Cambridge in 
1883 and at Edinburgh in the following 
year, and was proctor for the Chapter of 
Hereford in the Lower House of Convoca- 
tion. His musical compositions have been 
both numerous and successful. In 1853 
he published two works, "Services and 
Anthems" and a "Collection of Services," 
and the following year his oratorio of St. 
Polycarp. His other works include many 
anthems, and in conjunction with Dr. Monk, 
whom he has not long survived, "Anglican 
Psalter Chants." 



By the death of Sir F. A. Gore Ouseley 
both the Church and the musical world 
have sustained a loss which the general 
public cannot easily appreciate. Canon 
Ouseley was not given to any form of self- 
advertisement, and there were few qutside 
the circle of his immediate friends who 
quite understood how much he forwarded 
the progress of music in University and 
Church alike. His powers as a contrapuntist, 
his mastery of the literature of music (seen 
in his edition of Naumann's " History of 
Music"), and the reforms in musical degree- 
taking at Oxford introduced by him would 
alone severally entitle him to honour; but 
perhaps his best service was rendered in the 
•quiet life at St Michael's, Tenbury, whence 
have come many who are now carrying out 
in village and town the principles of Church 
music there learnt from him. Canon 
Ouseley was devoted to the "Cathedral" 
«tyle of choral worship, and viewed any 
departure from it with little favour. As a 
friend, companion, or teacher he was equally 
revered, and will long be mourned by those 
-who knew him. 



From the . Court Journal. 

The musical world has sustained a very 
considerable loss by the death of Sir 
Frederick Gore Ouseley. Had Sir Frederick 
been as ambitious as he was clever it is 
said he would have made a still greater 
reputation, but he was happiest in in- 
structing his pupils at St. Michael's College, 
which he founded. In the pretty little 
town of Tenbury, where he spent most of 
his time, he was almost adored, and in the 
city of Hereford he was extremely popular. 
It is already a matter of speculation whether 
his wonderful library will be sold. The 
musical works he accumulated, with the 
fondness and extravagance of an enthusiastic 
collector, are understood to be worth some 
thousands of pounds. 



From the Daily Chronicle, April 8th. 

The Rev. Canon Sir F. A. Gore Ouseley, 
Professor of Music at Oxford University, 
while standing on Saturday outside the 
Hereford branch of the Birmingham, 
Dudley, and District Bank, was seized with 
sudden illness. Medical aid was sum- 
moned, but he died within an hour of the 
attack. He had been suffering from an 
affection of the heart. The deceased was 
the only son of the late Right Hon. Sir 
Gore Ouseley, Bart., and was born in 
London on August 12th, 1825. He was 
educated privately under the Rev. Mr. 
Joyce, vicar of Dorking, and in 1843 
entered Christ Church College, Oxford, 
graduating B.A. in 1846, and M.A. in 1849. 
He succeeded to the baronetcy in 1844. 
Being ordained deacon in 1849, Sir 
Frederick was nominated to the curacy of 
St. Paul's, Knightsbridge, principally serving 
the sister church of St. Barnabas, Pimlico, 
and retained it till 185 1, when on the 
dispersion of the choir of St. Barnabas he 
collected them and established a colony at 
Love-hill House, Langley Marsh, Bucks. 
Subsequently he erected, at his own expense 
and on his own property, the church of St. 
Michael and All Angels, near Tenbury, 
and in 1856 was appointed its first vicar. 
He was the principal founder of St. 
Michael's College, Tenbury, whither the 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



choristers were removed from Langley. Sir 
Frederick took the degree of Bachelor of 
Music at Oxford in 1850, and Doctor of 
Music in 1854. He assumed priest's orders 
in 1855, and became Professor of Music in 
the University in the same year. In 1886 
he was made a Canon Residentiary of 
Hereford Cathedral. 



London, with whom he was associated 
some years back in an assortment of 
Anglican psalter chants. 



The late Canon was one of the most 
ardent and learned of those musicians who 
pursue the art rather as a means of healthful 
intellectual enjoyment than of pecuniary 
profit. In the field of sacred composition 
he had done much good work during his 
63 years of life, and had lately come into 
prominence by reason of the performance 
at the Hereford Musical Festival last 
September of his oratorio, "The Martyrdom 
of St. Polycarp," written as his "exercise" 
for the degree of Doctor of Music at 
Oxford over 30 years ago. Without slavishly 
following any particular master Canon 
Ouseley framed his works after those 
classical models that have long been 
accepted in the English Church. Thought, 
the highest musical intelligence, and depth 
of feeling, characterised all his services and 
anthems, in the production of which he was 
exceedingly prolific. Apparently he did not 
seek to become an epoch-maker in the art 
to which he was so attached, but everything 
that proceeded from his pen was interesting 
in its idea and execution, thoroughly 
orthodox, and admirably finished. Before 
his tenth year he is credited with having 
written an opera, and the musical library he 
formed at St. Michael's College at Tenbury, 
of which he was the warden, has often been 
the theme of appreciative discursion among 
those versed in such matters. His treatises 
and musical dissertations have been uni- 
versally commended, and will probably 
outlive in popularity the rtiajority of his 
compositions — correct and elegant as they 
are — except the more favoured of his 
church anthems. Upon an edition of the 
sacred works of Orlando Gibbons he be- 
stowed loving care, and was also responsible 
for a collection of cathedral services. It is 
somewhat strange that he should have died 
so soon after Dr. Monk, the late professor 
of music and organist at King's College, 



To the Editor of the Daily Chronicle. 

Sir, — In your notice of the death of Sir F. A. G. 
Ouseley, you mention, as a curious circumstance, 
that Sir Frederick should so soon follow Dr. Monk, 
of King's College, London, with whom he was 
associated in publishing a well-known collection of 
chants, etc. This is an error, for the Dr. Monk of 
psalter and chant book fame is Dr. E. G. Monk, 
for so many years organist of York Minster, and now 
living in well-earned retirement near Oxford. — I 
am, yours faithfully, 

W. E. BARTLETT. 

Redhill, April 8th. 



From the Daily News, April 8th. 

By the sudden death at Hereford from 
heart disease on Saturday of Canon Sir 
Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, Bart., 
Precentor of Hereford and Professor of 
Music at Oxford University, we lose one of 
our greatest contrapuntists, and by far the 
finest extempore player of organ fugues in 
this country. The deceased gentleman was 
born in London in August, 1825, and he 
succeeded to the baronetcy on the death, in 
1844, of his father, the famous Orientalist, 
and British Ambassador at St. Petersburg. 
Sir Frederick entered at Christ Church, 
Oxford, took his B.A. degree in 1846, 
M.A. in 1849 (when also he was ordained), 
Mus. Bac. in 1850, and Mus. Doc. in 1854. 
In the following year, on the death of Sir 
Henry Rowley Bishop, he was elected to 
the Oxford professorship. Sir Frederick 
speedily introduced many much-needed 
reforms. He raised the standard of musical 
qualifications, instituted an arts examination, 
as a necessary preliminary to the degree, 
induced the authorities to grant degrees 
honoris causa, and restored the office of 
Choragus. Over the musical life, not only 
of Oxford but also of Hereford, Sir 
Frederick Gore Ouseley indeed, for upwards 
of thirty years, exercised great and bene- 
ficent influence, and much of the musical 
spirit which now exists in the University 
must be attributed to his authority and 
example. Sir Frederick's larger composi- 
tions—that is to say his oratorios, "St. 
Polycarp" and "Hagar" — were more re- 



SIR FREDERICK USE LEY. 



r 9 



markable for scholarship than inspiration; 
but on the other hand he enriched the 
repertory of Church music with eleven 
services (one for double choir and one with 
orchestra) and a large number of anthems; 
he wrote two organ sonatas and thirty-one 
organ preludes and fugues; and edited the 
Cathedral Services of many of the old 
English masters, two volumes of anthems, 
and the Psalter pointed for chanting. He 
was also the author of the Oxford treatises 
on Harmony (three editions), Counterpoint, 
Canon, and Fugue (two editions), and 
Musical "Form." Sir Frederick was chief 
founder of St. Michael's College, Tenbury, 
•where, owing to his munificence, a large 
number of boys have been trained in 
musical and other knowledge, and in the 
chapel adjoining which a daily choral service 
is held by these boys and masters. Sir 
Frederick was the possessor of one of the 
finest private musical libraries in the king- 
dom, it including among other things the 
Palais Royal collection of old French 
operas, and the M.S. (partly in the 
composer's writing) of the copy of the 
" Messiah" from which Handel conducted 
the first performance of that oratorio. No 
decision will yet of course be come to in 
regard to the deceased gentleman's successor 
in the Oxford professorship. But if his 
health permit him to accept it, it will no 
doubt be conferred upon Sir John Stainer, 
who, apart from the distinguished position 
he holds in the musical world, is an Oxford 
resident, and has so long been identified 
with music at the University. 



From the Daily Telegraph. 

The sudden death of the Rev. Sir 
Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, Bart, 
Temoves from active and useful work a 
man of mark. Sir Frederick was known in 
two capacities. As a clergyman he dis- 
charged the functions of a country vicar, 
at St. Michael's, Tenbury, and those of a 
Cathedral precentor, at Hereford; in both 
places labouring with zeal and success. But 
the deceased baronet was more familiar to 
the public as a composer and practical 
musician. That he could preach well those 
know who heard him deliver the Festival 



sermon at Hereford last year. There is 
reason to believe, however, that his chief 
strength lay in music, to the service of 
which he was singularly devoted. As a 
composer, Sir Frederick appeared at his 
best in the solid school of the Church ; 
many of his services, anthems, and organ 
pieces having merit and vitality sufficient 
to keep his name from being forgotten. 
He wrote two oratorios, , " St. Polycarp" 
and " Hagar," as well as string quartets, 
glees, part songs, &c, but these will hardly 
represent him to future generations. He 
had neither the imagination nor the versa- 
tility required by a "composer at large" 
and it says much for his true introspection 
that he mainly did the sort of work of 
which he was most capable. Sir Frederick 
was Oxford Professor of Music for thirty- 
four years ; in that capacity, and during 
that extended period, exercising a beneficial 
influence upon art at the University. 
Strongly Conservative, he believed in patient 
study of the principles and practice of the 
great masters; confident that thus only can 
a musician be well-grounded. As an 
organist, Sir Frederick could lay claim to 
exceptional skill; his works on musical 
theory have long been held in high esteem, 
and he was not less successful in various 
labours as an editor. His death will 
probably bring into the market one of the 
finest musical libraries this country can 
boast. 



From the Guardian. 

We regret to learn the death of Canon 
Sir Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, of St. 
Michael's College, Tenbury, which took 
place suddenly on Saturday, in the Hereford 
branch of the Birmingham, Dudley, and 
District Bank. He was the only son of 
the first baronet, who was successively 
Ambassador and Minister Plenipotentiary 
to Persia and St. Petersburg, and was born 
in London in August, 1825. He early 
displayed great inclination for music. After 
a private school education he was entered 
as a gentleman commoner at Christ Church. 
Shortly after he had taken up his residence 
his father died, and he succeeded to the 
title in 1844. Two years later he graduated, 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



and in 1849 was ordained a deacon by the 
Bishop of London to the curacy of St. 
Paul's, Knightsbridge, which he resigned 
in 1850. The choir of the church was 
also dispersed, but most of these he 
gathered around him at Lovehill House, 
Langley Marish, Buckinghamshire. Upon 
his property at Tenbury, known as the 
Old Wood, he erected in 1856 at his own 
expense the beautiful church dedicated to 
St. Michael and All Angels, of which he 
was the first vicar. He took the degree of 
Mus. Bac. in 1850 and in 1854 that of 
Mus. Doc, and in the same year in which 
he became vicar of St. Michael's he was 
appointed Warden of St. Michael's College, 
where he formed a musical library, con- 
sisting of some 2,000 volumes, which is 
regarded as the most valuable and extensive 
private collection in the kingdom. In 
1855, on the death of Sir Henry _Bishop, 
he was appointed Professor of Music in 
the University of Oxford, and the same 
year Precentor of Hereford Cathedral, which 
office he filled till 1886, when he was 
appointed Canon. He was an honorary 
student of Christ Church, received the 
honorary degree of LL.D. at Cambridge in 
1883, and at Edinburgh in the following 
year, and was Proctor for the Chapter of 
Hereford in the Lower House of Convoca- 
tion. His musical compositions, says the 
Times, have been both numerous and 
successful. In 1853 he published two 
works, "Services and Anthems," and a 
"Collection of Services," and the following 
year his oratorio of "St. Polycarp." His 
other works include many anthems, of 
which the most popular is "How goodly 
are thy tents, O Israel," and he was the 
editor of two volumes of "Special Anthems 
for Certain Seasons and Festivals of the 
Church," and of the "Sacred Works of 
Orlando Gibbons," and in conjunction with 
Dr. Monk, whom he has not long survived, 
" Anglican Psalter Chants." His treatises 
on harmony, on counterpoint, canon, and 
fugue, and on musical form and general 
composition, published in the Clarendon 
Press series, are valuable contributions to 
musical literature, and have taken their 
place as standard works. Sir Frederick 
Ouseley was also the author of a sacred 



oratorio, in two parts, "Hagar," the words 
of which were selected from Scripture by 
the Rev. J. R. G. Taylor, and of numerous 
sermons, lectures, &c. 



From the Hawk, April qth. 

I am sorry to hear of the death of Sir 
Frederick Gore Ouseley, who succeeded Sir 
Henry Bishop as Professor of Music at 
Oxford University. He was a silver-haired 
old gentleman, dignified, not to say pomp- 
ous, in appearance, a thorough master and 
also a popular exponent of his subject. 
His lectures on gfees, given in the Shel- 
donian Theatre, and illustrated by the 
performances of a choir specially trained 
for the purpose, were much appreciated, as 
were also his discourses on canon and fugue, 
illustrated by Mr. Parratt, of Magdalen, on 
the organ. 



From the Hereford Times. 

Canon Sir Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, 
M.A., Mus. Doc, was born in Grosvenor 
Square, London, August 12th, 1825, and 
was therefore in his 64th year. At his 
baptism the Duke of Wellington and the 
Duke of York were his sponsors. He was 
the only son of the Right Hon. Sir Gore 
Ouseley, Bart., G.C.B., F.R.S., of Hall 
Barn Park, Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire 
(an eminent Orientalist and diplomatist, 
who served successfully as Ambassador and 
Minister Plenipotentiary to the Courts of 
Persia and St. Petersburgh), by his marriage 
with Harriet Georgina, daughter of Mr. 
John Whitelock. The Ouseleys are an 
ancient Shropshire family, a former residence 
of a branch being Alcote, in the parish of 
Worfield, near Bridgenorth, a house noted 
for its mullioned windows. The deceased 
canon succeeded to the title in 1844, on 
the death of his father; he had never been 
married, and leaves no nearer relatives than 
an uncle, General Ouseley, and Colonel 
Ouseley, a cousin. The title dies with him. 
Sir Frederick from early childhood evinced 
a great talent for music, and at the age of 
eight he composed an opera — "LTsola 
Disabitata." He was educated, primarily, 
under Mr. Joyce, vicar of Dorking. In 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



1843 he entered Christ Church College, 
Oxford, as a gentleman commoner. He 
graduated B.A. in 1846, proceeded to his 
M.A. degree in 1849, was ordained priest 
in 1849 by the Bishop of London, and 
nominated to the curacy of St. Paul's, 
Knightsbridge, principally serving the sister 
church of St. Barnabas, Pimlico, and living 
in the college attached to that church. He 
held the curacy till 1851, and on the 
dispersion of the choir of St. Barnabas, he 
collected the scattered choristers and estab- 
lished this little colony under the mastership 
of the Rev. Henry Fyffe, M.A., at Lovehill 
House, near Langley Marish, Buckingham- 
shire. In 1855 he was ordained priest by 
the Bishop of Hereford, having in 1850 
taken the degree of Bachelor of Music, his 
exercise being a cantata — "The Lord is the 
true God;" and in 1854 he proceeded to 
the higher grade of doctor of music, from 
which the oratorio, "St. Polycarp" (heard 
at the Festival of the Three Choirs at 
Hereford last September) was composed 
and performed. In 1855 he was appointed 
Precentor of Hereford Cathedral, and at 
the end of that year he was nominated 
professor of music at the University of 
Oxford in succession to the late Sir Henry 
Bishop, the income from which is ^"140 
per annum. Sir Frederick speedily intro- 
duced many much needed reforms at 
Oxford. The office of Choragus, which 
had fallen into disuse, was re-established by 
his efforts, and was first held by Dr. Corfe. 
He raised the standard of musical qualifica- 
tions, instituted an arts examination, and as 
a necessary preliminary to the degree, 
induced the authorities to grant degrees 
honoris causa. Recently the excellent system 
of a preliminary examination in elementary 
mathematics and classics, which was origi- 
nated at Dublin by Sir Robert Stewart, and 
adopted at Cambridge, has been necessary 
at Oxford, so that a degree in music is no 
longer conferred by our Universities on 
persons who have not received some general 
education. Sir Frederick also induced his 
University to grant honorary degrees in 
music, which had jiever been given at 
Oxford previous to 1879. 

As a practical and theoretical musician 
and composer, he occupied a high place. 



He was skilled, both as a pianist and as an 
organist. In extemporaneous performances 
on the organ, especially in fugue-playing and 
in contrapuntal treatment of a given theme, 
he was at the present time in this country 
perhaps unsurpassed. In his youth he 
played duets with the Queen at Buckingham 
Palace; and he also played with the 
immortal Mendelssohn. Upon his property 
at Tenbury known as the " Old Wood," he 
erected in 1856, at his own expense, the 
beautiful church dedicated to St. Michael 
and All Angels, of which he was the first 
vicar, and also founded and partially en- 
dowed a college of singular beauty and 
dignity, "intended not only as a means of 
promoting the Church Service of the Church 
of England, but also to give at a moderate 
cost, and in some cases with considerable 
assistance to those who need k, a liberal 
and classical education, to the sons of clergy 
and other gentlemen, combined with sound 
church teaching." At this college several 
clergymen of the diocese have been 
educated. When Dr. Langdon Colborne 
was appointed organist of Hereford Cathe- 
dral, he was organist at Wigan, but had 
previously been Sir Frederick's organist at 
St. Michael's for 17 years. Attached to 
St. Michael's College is a foundation for 
eight choristers, who are boarded, lodged, 
and educated with the commoners, gratu- 
itously. 

The total cost of the college has been 
about ^40,000. Sir Frederick was the 
Warden of the College, the Rev. J. Hamp- 
ton, M.A. (late scholar of Queen's College, 
Cambridge), Sub- Warden and Choirmaster; 
the Rev. C. W. Hunt, B.A. (C.C.C. Oxon), 
Head Master, together with several assistant 
masters. In the Warden's house of the 
College Sir Frederick formed a musical 
library, which is acknowledged to be the 
most valuable and extensive private collec- 
tion in the kingdom. It contains nearly 
5,000 volumes, mostly rare full scores and 
treatises, including, among other things, the 
old Palais Royal collection, with the French 
Royal arms on the covers, consisting of 
scores of operas, motets, &c, by Lully, 
Colasse, Destouches, Lalande, Campra, and 
many other French composers, now for- 
, gotten. They have at the College also a 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



very large collection of M.S. of the Italian 
sacred music of the Palestrina Schools, 
copied from the magnificent library of the 
Pate Abbate Santina of Rome. Then they 
possess the ever valuable M.S. of Handel's 
"Messiah," partly in that immortal com- 
poser's own autograph, and partly in that of 
J. C. Smith. It was from this copy that 
Handel conducted the work, on its first 
performance in Dublin, and it contains 
various writings and curious annotations in 
Handel's own handwriting. Amongst the 
autographs in this library may be mentioned 
a large collection' of curious fugal music, 
original and selected, in the hand-writing 
of Dr. Crotch; a full score of Sophr's 
symphonies, and autographs of Orlando de 
Lasso, of Benevoli, Blow, Crott, Bononcini, 
Travers, Boyce, Arnold, Mozart, Paganini, 
and Mendelssohn. Probably the only copy 
in England of Eslava's Lira Sacro Hispana 
was in this library, which also contains 
copies of all the treatises of Goforius, in- 
cluding the earliest and rarest one published 
in Naples in 1480. In 1883, the University 
of Cambridge conferred the honour of Hon. 
LL.D. upon him, and the University of 
Edinburgh in the next year. In 1868 he 
was elected one of the Proctors in Convoca- 
tion for the Chapter of Hereford, and 
re-elected in 1874, 1880, and 1886. On 
the death of the Rev. John Jebb in 1886, 
he was made a Canon Residentiary of 
Hereford Cathedral, his last public function 
being to have preached the Festival sermon 
at Hereford in September. He was Presi- 
dent of the Herefordshire Philharmonic 
Society from its commencement 27 years 
ago. 

Over the musical life, not only of Oxford, 
but also of Hereford, Sir Frederick, for 
upwards of thirty years, exercised a great 
and beneficent influence, and much of the 
musical spirit which now exists in the 
University must be attributed to his 
authority and example. He took a deep 
personal interest in the recent discussion in 
these columns — "Is Hereford a Musical 
City?" — though he was at Tenbury during 
the greater portion of the controversy. His 
larger compositions — that is to say his 
oratorios, "St. Polycarp" and "Hagar" — 
were more remarkable for scholarship than 



inspiration ; but, on the other hand, he 
enriched the repertory of Church music 
with eleven services (one for double choir 
and one with orchestra), and a large number 
of anthems. He wrote two organ sonatas 
and thirty-one organ preludes and fugues; 
and edited the Cathedral services of many 
of our old English masters, two volumes of 
anthems and the Psalter, pointed for chant- 
ing. His best known anthem is "How 
goodly are thy tents, O Israel!" He 
composed the festival anthems on the 
restoration of the Cathedrals of Lichfield 
(1857), and of Hereford (1863). His 
treatise on "Harmony" and on "Counter- 
point and Fugue" (1869) are standard 
works; whilst his "Treatise on musical 
form and general composition" is also a 
valuable contribution to musical literature. 
He edited a collection of "Cathedral 
services" in 1853 and in conjunction with 
Dr. Monk, the "Anglican Psalter chants" 
(1872), and he contributed to "Hymns 
Ancient and Modern." 

It will thus be seen that the hand of 
death has removed one of England's noblest 
sons, and the diocese of Hereford has lost 
one of her most distinguished men. Many 
more years of great usefulness to his country 
in general, and to his diocese in particular 
seemed to be before him. His was one of 
those whose lives bring blessings to those 
who live them. His greatest personal 
characteristic no doubt was benevolence 
and sympathy. Sterne's beautiful words 
exactly illustrate his disposition — "In benevo- 
lent natures, the impulse to sympathise and 
pity is so sudden, that like instruments of 
music which obey the touch — the objects 
which are fitted to excite such impressions 
work so instantaneous an effect, that you 
would think the will was scarce concerned, 
and that the mind was altogether passive in 
the sympathy which her own goodness had 
excited." The central aim of his life was 
to promote the interests of the Church he 
loved so well, the elevation of the in- 
tellectual and moral tone of the rising 
generation ; and as to the musical element 
in the Church, his whole soul was in it. 
He has been called away in the height of 
his powers, of his influence and of his fame, 
and withal blameless in every relation of 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



23 



life. "Virtue he loved without austerity, 
pleasure without effeminacy, and life without 
fearing its end." The diocese at large will 
miss him, the musical world will miss him, 
the neighbourhood of Tenbury will miss 
him, and St. Michael's College and Church 
more than all. It was impossible not to 
suppose that for many years his genial 
presence would be enjoyed; but it was not 
to be. "God's finger touched him, and he 
slept," Requiescat in pace. 



In an account of Sir Frederick Ouseley's 
life written during his lifetime occurs the 
following : — 

"Sir Frederick resigned the curacy of St. 
Barnabas, Pimlico, in 1850. On the break 
up of the choir of St. Barnabas, which 
followed the resignation of the vicar, the 
Rev. W. J. E. Bennett, the idea occurred 
to Sir Frederick that the boys of the choir, 
who had joined it with hopes of at least such 
an education as would fit them for entering 
the world, fared hardly in being thus again 
thrown upon their own resources, and it was 
at this time that he began to form the plan 
which resulted in a movement from which 
many have subsequently benefitted. Secur- 
ing the services of his friend and former 
fellow curate, the Rev. Henry Fyffe, as 
master of the school, he collected the scat- 
tered boys of the former St. Barnabas' choir, 
and established this little colony with himself 
as its head, at Lovehill House, near Langley 
Marish,'in the county of Buckingham. Here, 
in order that the traditions of their last work 
might not be broken, and that the boys of 
the choir of the future church in the county 
of Worcester and diocese of Hereford, might 
enter on the permanent work which lay before 
them, and might be maintained in a state of 
musical efficiency, he fitted up a temporary 
chapel ne"ar his house, in which cathedral 
service was carried on twice a day until he 
was enabled to remove his choir to the church 
for which their services were ultimately in- 
tended. In the meantime he was engaged in 
building, at his own cost, and on his own 
property, the noble and beautiful church of 
St. Michael and All Angels, at a place Called 
the Old Wood, some two miles from the little 
town of Tenbury. In this work he had 



several objects in view, one of which was to 
provide a place of worship for a scattered 
district, taken out of the parishes of Tenbury, 
Bockleton, Leysters, and- Middleton-on-the- 
Hill, of which he is patron, and which he has 
since provided with an adequate endowment 
and a good vicarage house. In 1854 he took 
the degree of D. Mus., at Oxford, his execise 
for this degree, an oratorio, since published 
called "The Martyrdom of St. Polycarp," 
being, as before, approved by Sir H. R. 
Bishop, and performed on this occasion in 
the Sheldonian Theatre, with a very efficient 
band and chorus, consisting in great measure 
of his personal friends in the University. In 
1855, he was ordained priest, by Bishop 
Hampden, of Hereford, and shortly after- 
wards, doubtless in appreciation not only of 
his acknowledged eminence as a musician, 
but of the disinterested work and mission 
which he was just bringing into his own 
diocese, appointed him to the precentorship 
of Hereford Cathedral. No more fitting 
appointment could possibly have been made ; 
but whereas this office had, up to this time, 
been endowed with a sum of .£500 a year for 
the benefit of the occupants, not one of them 
had discharged one particle of its duty for at 
least a century, or been qualified to discharge 
it, it was now under the operation of the 
Cathedral Act, to present the edifying spec- 
tacle of an entirely disendowed office, just 
when, for the first time perhaps from its 
foundation, it was occupied by a man not 
only anxious to do its work efficiently, but in 
every way qualified for such work ; an accom- 
plished musician, a man of zeal, energy, 
ability, and who by his courtesy to all no less 
than his influence and example would soon 
have thrown new vigour and devotion into 
the choir and services, and been to his 
cathedral, as a precentor should be, the centre 
of its life and action. It was also in the year 
1855, that the professorship of music at 
Oxford became vacant by the death of Sir H. 
R. Bishop. The proctors at the time in 
whom the appointment was vested, were the 
Rev. John Murray Holland, M.A., of New 
College, and the Rev. Arthur Fanshawe 
Stopford, M.A., of All Souls, who decided on 
offering it unsolicited to Sir F. Ouseley, not 
only as being in every way thoroughly qualified 
by his unrivalled musical attainments, whether 



24 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



viewed as a performer, a writer or a composer, 
but as having a qualification possessed by no 
other candidate, quite independently of his 
rank and social position, which would give 
additional prestige to the office, in the fact 
that he was also a Master of Arts, and 
a member of convocation of the University. 
It is needless to do, more than briefly refer to 
the many able and eminently useful lectures 
by which Sir Frederick, has justified his 
appointment, to the new organ, which by his 
exertions has been placed in the Sheldonian 
Theatre, and to the various ways and means, 
in which, by his influence, the study and 
practice of music has been encouraged and 
promoted in our Universities and in our 
Cathedrals, and throughout the kingdom. 

But soon after his appointment to two 
offices so congenial to him, as those which 
he now held at Hereford and at Oxford, he 
was enabled, by the completion of his 
church, to enter on the life and residence 
to which he had been most especially 
looking forward. The church of St. Michael 
and All Angels, in which he now began his 
work, not only stands in a very beautiful 
situation, but is itself of ample size and 
proportions, and consists of a nave, a chancel 
with an apsidal termination, transepts, and 
aisles. One transept is occupied by the 
font with its richly carved canopy, the other 
by the organ built first by Flight, and since 
enlarged and completed by Telford, of 
Dublin. It has a roof of wood groining, 
and many of the windows are filled with 
stained glass, principally the work of 
Hardman. This church was consecrated by 
Bishop Hampden, on Michaelmas day, 1856; 
Sir Frederick as its first vicar, and also as 
warden of St. Michael's College (now fairly 
in existence, on the removal of the boys, 
who were its nucleus, from Langley), living 
in a house at Spring Grove, not far from the 
church, and the members of the choir, the 
masters of the boys, and others, living in 
temporary lodgings, also near the church, 
until they could move into the college, 
which was now rising on a spot contiguous 
to the church, and which was to be their 
permanent abode. Enough men's voices 
are provided for the maintenance of daily 
Cathedral service, which has now gone on 
continuously in this church since Michael- 



mas, 1856, among the officers of the college 
and the masters of the school; the choristers 
are the sons of gentlemen, with a special 
preference for the sons of the clergy, chosen 
of course with special reference to musical 
excellence of whom the eight seniors receive 
an excellent classical education, free of all 
expense, the eight juniors, for a very small 
annual payment, succeeding to the benefits 
enjoyed by the seniors as vacancies occur. 
It was this part of the scheme which was 
one of Sir Frederick's special objects in 
spending no small proportion of his sub- 
stance in providing the beautiful church and 
college, which are now fulfilling their 
purpose. A few other boys are admitted 
to the school on higher terms. The college 
is as well appointed as the church, every 
provision being made for the comfort of its 
inmates that care and kindness could foresee 
and secure. Its buildings comprise a dining- 
hall, which might suffice for a small college 
in one of the Universities and the usual 
offices; a library containing a large and 
valuable collection of books, rooms for the 
masters, a schoolroom, dormitories; and the 
warden's private house, which last-named 
dwelling contains a musical library, collected 
by Sir F. Ouseley, which is known to be the 
most valuable and extensive private collec- 
tion in the kingdom. When it is added 
that his constant thought for others, and his 
Christian unselfishness, are the key to his 
character, this brief notice may be appro- 
priately concluded by the trite inscription on 
some modern buildings on one of the 
colleges in Oxford, — " Verbum non amplius." 



From the Illustrated London News, 
April 20TH. 

.Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, Canon of 
Hereford Cathedral, founder and Warden of 
St. Michael's College, Tenbury, and long Pro- 
fessor of Music in the University of Oxford, 
died at Hereford, April 6th. This accom- 
plished musical composer, and exponent of 
the art and science of music, was born in 
London in 1825, son of the Right Hon. Sir 
Gore Ouseley, the eminent Orientalist and 
Ambassador at the Courts of Persia and St. 
Petersburg, and succeeded to his father's title 
in 1844. In 1849 he was ordained and 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



25 



•appointed to the curacy of St. Paul's, Knights- 
bridge, which he held until 1851. In 1850 
he took the degree of Bachelor of Music, at 
Oxford, and four years later he became 
Doctor of Music- Upon the death of Sir 
Henry R. Bishop in 1855 he was appointed 
to the professorship of music at Oxford, and 
in the same year was ordained priest and ap- 
pointed precentor of Hereford Cathedral. 
In the next year he became Vicar of St. 
Michael's College, Tenbury, which he had 
-erected at his own expense, for the education 
of choristers, and where he collected a valu- 
able library of music. Sir Frederick Ouseley 
■composed two oratorios ("St. Poly carp" and 
" Hagar"), also many anthems and pieces for 
"the organ, and arranged (with E. G. Monk) 
" The Psalter " for chanting. He also com- 
posed several glees and songs. His "Treatise 
on Harmony," "Treatise on Counterpoint," 
.and "Treatise on Musical Form and General 
Composition," have become recognised text- 
books. He was unmarried, and the 
baronetcy expires with him. Sir Frederick's 
portrait is given on another page. 

Sir F. A. G. Ouseley's Arms are Arg. a chevron 
sa. between 3 holly leaves pr. a chief of the 2nd with 
the insignia of Baronetage thereon, as usual. 

The Crest, a wolf's head, erased, holding a human 
ihand in its mouth all pr. Motto : " Mors lupi agnis 
vita." 

From the Lock to Lock Times, May 4TH. 

Oxford has just sustained a sad and 
irreparable loss in the death of Sir Frederick 
■Gore-Ouseley. As Professor of Music, his 
lectures, with illustrations, always proved one 
of the most attractive items in the Term's 
programme. It was only last Term that he 
was lecturing on English dance music in the 
Sheldonian. He was professor thirty-four 
years, and his knowledge of the old masters 
was so profound and extensive that the 
-candidates for musical degrees had little or 
no chance of plagiarism. The contest for 
the vacant chair will be a keen one. 



From the Morning Post, April 8th. 

We have to record the death of the Rev. 
■Sir Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, Bart., 
at Hereford, on Saturday. Sir Frederick 
was chiefly known as a writer of Church 
music, and as holding the professorship of 



music at Oxford University. He was born 
in London in 1825, and was the son of the 
Right Hon. Sir Gore Ouseley, the eminent 
Orientalist, and Ambassador at the Courts 
of Persia and St. Petersburg, and succeeded 
to his father's title in 1844. St. Michael's 
College, Tenbury, a school for the in- 
struction of boys in music as well as general 
subjects, was founded and maintained by 
him. In 1849 he was ordained and 
appointed to the curacy of St. Paul's, 
Knightsbridge, which he held until 1851. 
In 1850 he took the degree of Mus. Bac. at 
Oxford, and four years later he became 
Mus. Doc. Upon the death of Sir Henry 
R. Bishop in 1855 he was appointed to the 
professorship of music at Oxford, and in 
the same year ordained priest and appointed 
precentor of Hereford Cathedral. In the 
next year he became vicar of St. Michael's 
College, Tenbury. Sir Frederick Ouseley 
has written two oratorios ("St. Polycarp" 
and "Hagar"), several anthems and pieces 
for the organ, and arranged (with E. G. 
Monk) "The Psalter" for chanting. He 
also composed several glees and songs. His 
"Treatise on Harmony," "Treatise on 
Counterpoint," and "Treatise on Musical 
Form and General Composition" have 
become recognised text-books. 

Sir Frederick Ouseley's extraordinary 
powers of extemporisation upon the piano- 
forte and organ were unrivalled. Like 
many eminent musicians, he displayed great 
musical ability in his earliest years, and a 
waltz of his composition, written in his 
seventh year, was published in " The Har- 
monicon." He was unmarried, and the 
baronetcy dies with him. He was a member 
of an ancient Irish family, the branches of 
which gave to the world the Wellesleys, 
the Wesleys, and the Ouseleys, all springing 
from the same stock. 



From the Musical Opinion, May ist. 

Mr. Leonard M S. O'Connor, who was 
known to the deceased gentleman, writes 
as follows : — 

" Death has taken from our midst, during 
the last month, one who will be sorely missed; 
one whose days seem to have been spent in 
considering the best means of helping his 



26 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



fellow musicians, — both old and young. All 
who had the high privilege of personal 
intercourse with him, either as an examiner, 
or better still as a friend, must own that he 
proved himself a friend indeed. Never 
shall I forget the numerous acts of kindness 
bestowed on me, followed by a visit and 
short stay at St. Michael's College three 
weeks before his death. This visit was 
characterized by kindness and unbounded 
fatherly love, as well as assurance of a 
strong helping hand for the future. Young 
musicians, like myself, who experienced any 
of his great consideration, will indeed feel 
as a ship without a rudder. His life upon 
earth, and the works he has left behind, 
will be cherished and loved by all who 
knew him." 



From the Musical Standard, April 28th. 

The news of the death of the Rev. Canon 
Sir Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley has 
come with a suddenness that must have 
caused a shock to many who knew and 
esteemed him. To those of his friends who 
were more intimately acquainted with him, 
perhaps the sad event is not so great a 
surprise. He was known to be far from 
strong, and to be suffering from a weak 
heart. During last autumn, when the writer 
of this notice was staying at St. Michael's, 
in the course of a walk to Tenbury, Sir 
Frederick frequently stopped on ascending 
a hill, apologising for so doing by saying, 
" My doctor tells me to break any engage- 
ment, miss any train, and suffer any loss or 
inconvenience rather than hurry, so I 
suppose I must have a weak heart; but I 
trust it is not a very bad one," he added 
with a little smile. Those, who in the 
course of the multifarious duties in which 
Sir Frederick was engaged were brought 
into close contact with him, and watched 
the gradual decline of his strength, cannot 
but have known that he was in a serious 
condition. And yet, even to them the sad 
intelligence comes with a startling shock. 
Thus has passed away a gifted musician, a 
thoughtful writer, a scholar of singularly 
wide reading and acquirements, a preacher 
and divine whose sympathies were confined 
to no single sect, and as true a Christian 



gentleman as one can find in our England 
of to-day. In his death, music has sustained 
a distinct loss. His zeal and love for the 
art were remarkable. He was indeed a born 
musician; from his boyhood he lived in an 
atmosphere of music labouring for the good 
of the art in its many branches, and 
pursuing it with a zest which must have 
brought him many hours of keen intellectual 
enjoyment over his work. His ripened 
knowledge, profound scholarship, and grasp 
of every phase of the history and science of 
music, were astonishing. There seemed no 
department of it that he had not investi- 
gated, no difficult question that he had not 
probed and formed a judgment upon. His 
extensive knowledge was ever at the service 
of those who asked him for information ; he 
could add something more to the laboriously 
acquired knowledge of every student. A 
good classical scholar, he was also a great 
linguist and reader, consequently no work on 
music appeared to ihave escaped his observ- 
ation. He seemed to have read everything. 
The curious treatises of the old Greek 
philosopher-musicians were as familiar to him 
as the obscure writings of the mediaeval 
monks, the learned works of French, Italian 
and Spanish writers of a bygone age, and the 
last new theory of harmony by some aspirant 
who fondly fancied he had solved all root 
difficulties, and placed harmony on a basis 
that the merest tyro could understand and 
appreciate. He knew them all, and his 
logical and critical powers enabled him to 
judge these works at their proper appraisement. 
In the literature of music, proper he was 
just as well read. He was acquainted with 
the various works of the great masters, and 
yet could go back beyond these, century after 
century, describing early counterpoint, the 
gradual growth of the art through the 
many ages until it was firmly settled on its 
present basis, showing just where each de- 
parture and fresh advance took place, quoting 
and playing from the store of his wonderful 
memory passages and pieces culled from all 
times and schools to illustrate his discourse. 
Nothing seems to have escaped his notice, he 
had read deeply, and he forgot nothing. 
The charm of his courteous manner and his 
thoughtful conversation were indeed delight- 
ful. One could not part with him without 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



-7 



having leamt something of value, and without 
being impressed by his extensive knowledge 
and culture. In his death many of us must 
feel that we have lost a dear trier! J. a Mentor, 
and art example of true goodness such as is 
rarely to be found in the course of our 
sojourn here. 

Briefly le: me sketch the particulars of 
what may be termed his official career. Sir 



r reder;ck Arthur G 



afterwards developed into the foundation of 
the classical, mathematical, and choristers" 
foundation school at Tenbury, a handsome 
pile built and partly endowed by Sir Frederick 
in i S5 4. He took the degree of Mas. Bac. 
in 1 $50. his exercise being a cantata '•The 
Lord is the true God," and that of Mus. Doc 
in 1S54. In the following year, on the death 
of Sir Henry Rowley Bishop, Sir Frederick 



the same old Irish stock that gave to the 
world the Wesleys and the Welleslevs. two 
notable families in our history. He was the 
only son of the rlrst baronet, the Right Hon. 
Sir Gore Ouseley. G.C.B., F.R.S.. who was 
well known to the past generation as a tamo us 
Oriental scholar, and was successively Am- 
bassador and Minister Plenipotentiary to 
Persia and Russia. His :r. other was Harriet 
Georglna. the daughter of Mr. John White- 
kxke. and he was born in London in August 
1SJ5. The great Puke of Wellington, from 
whom he took his Christian name. Arthur, 
w-as one of his godiathers. At a very early 
age his talent for mask displayed itself! He 
could play auuost before he could talk. The 
"ate John EUs. told me that when the boy was 
aged rive he sat on his knees at the pianoforte. 
played some pieces bv Moiart and Beethoven, 
and a httle composition of his own, in a 
wonderful wav. When aged seven he wrote 
a waltr. to be found in the Z&nRWt&re. and 
at eicht he composed a httle opera entitled 
-LTso'u disubitata." He possessed an 
extra ordinarily accurate ear. and soon cis- 
cinguished himself by his great gift of im- 
provising on a given theme, and playing 
extempore fugues and other pieces. Ftrsibe 
-ver.t to school at Dorking, and in 1^4.3 
■entered Christ Church. Oxford, as a gentleman 
coanmocer. A year after his father died, and 
he succeeded to the title of second baronet. 
He graduated HA. in 1S46, and in 1S40 
proceeded to his M.A. degree, and was then 
ordained by the Bishop of London, who 
licensed him to the curacy of St. Fau.'s. 
Knightsbridge. where he worked t31 1S51. 
Here he greatly aided in making the musical 
■service; of this weB-known church famous. 
and when he left he tock many of the younger 
members of the choir with him to LovehiD 
House, near Langvey. in Buckinghamshrre. 
This was the begrnrtrr:*-: of the scheme which 



Ouseley came from was appointed to the Chair of Music in the 
University of Oxford. His real and influence 
gradually worked a change as to the regard in 
which music was held in this old seat of 
learning. During the thirty-four years that 
he held this distinguished post, the knowledge 
and the practice of the art has advanced 
aniouinglv. That advance is mainlv owing 
to the precept and the encouragement of the 
late Professor : he laboured to raise the quali- 
ricadons necessary for obtaining a musical 
degree, and instituted an arts examinadon as 
a preliminary, and he contrived to revive the 
degree Aifmrrts cjiA;. Undoubtedly he has 
left music, both as to its public performance 
and the estimation with which it is now 
regarded, in a very different condition from 
that which obtained when he drst commenced 
his official work at the U" diversity. In the 
year 1S56. on his property " The Old Wood " 
at Tenbury. on the borders of Hereford and 
Worcestershire, he built the beautiful church 
of St. Mkhael and Ail Angels, adjoining the 
College he had so munificently founded. He 
was appointed the first vicar of the parish, and 
was formally nominated Warden of the 
College and Choristers" foundation by the 
Bishop of Hereford. 

Let us leave Tenbury for a moment, and go 
on to speak of Sir Fredericks other duties. 
In 1S55 he was nominated Precentor of 
Hereford Cathedral, and though this appoint- 
ment brought him little emolument, he 



fen 



iced ueo_o us»y to ms a; 
dcent iniuence over 



catneiir 



->:! 



::es, exercised a 

music in the 
citv. one. wrote tor the choir some 
admirable anthems and services. Not until 
iS56 was he appointed a Canon of the 
Cathedral,* so that he had to wait long for a 

- Oq this point a fitfeoxiof wide experience writs: 
"I shili be ^"ii to ha*e a memorial of oce cc the 
V-zcaest inc. aoosc crsei:^ me^ I tore ever 5ud the 
^.-oJ foftume to ho». 

I acce £ac joa will bring out the &et that ill tke 



28 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



substantial reward for his labours. At Here- 
ford he won all hearts by the devotion he 
displayed to his clerical duties, and his 
singular kindliness of heart. His connection 
with Oxford, where he still kept up his union 
with Christ Church College as an Honorary 
Student was, of course, a close one ; he was 
constantly there in the exercise of his pro- 
fessional duties, examining the exercises of 
those who presented themselves for degrees, 
and delivering courses of lectures on music. 

Sir Frederick Ouseley has written much 
excellent music, not all of which has yet 
been published. In 1853 he issued two 
works, viz., "Services and Anthems," and 
"A Collection of Services." These were 
followed by " Special Anthems for Certain 
Seasons and Festivals of the Church," "The 
Sacred Works of Orlando Gibbons," and in 
conjunction with Dr. Edwin George Monk 
(formerly organist of York minster, but who 
is now retired from active work), the famous 
volume known as " Monk and Ouseley's 
Anglican Psalter Chants." His larger works 
are the oratorio of " St. Polycarp," written 
for his Mus. Doc. degree, and produced at 
the Hereford Festival of 1854, and 'again 
given there last year, meeting with wide 
approval ; and a second oratorio, " Hagar," 
written in his more developed and ripened 
period, produced at the Hereford Festival 
of 1873, an d shortly after repeated at the 
Crystal Palace. Besides his eleven services, 
anthems, and other church music, he has 
written songs, madrigals, glees, and part- 
songs, some of these are admirable models of 
this type of English music ; string quartets, 
two' organ sonatas, and thirty-one preludes 
and fugues, besides other smaller pieces for 
the organ, charming works full of interest, 
and thoroughly adapted to display the genius 
of the instrument on which he was so fine a 
player. His books on Harmony, Counter- 
point, Musical Form and Composition, 
mostly published in the Clarendon Press 

self-sacrifice thai Sir Frederick made — fortune, time, 
strength — in the highest interests of the church went 
unrewarded by the powers that be, whether in Church 
or State until some couple of years before his death, 
he was appointed to a Canonry in Hereford 
Cathedral. 

I do not suppose that Sir F. lived to put a farthing 
of the income of his stall in his pocket." 



series, have taken their place among the 
standard works of musical literature, and 
serve well to display the great contrapuntal 
learning of the deceased Professor. It is- 
perhaps too soon to assess the merits and 
value of the music Sir Frederick Ouseley 
wrote. Some assert that he was not gifted 
with imagination. This may be so to some- 
extent ; gifts vary in their nature, and if he 
did not possess the imagination of such 
poetic composers as Mendelssohn and 
Schumann, the profundity of Beethoven, or 
the perfect classical form of Mozart, yet it 
is impossible to hear his sacred compositions,, 
modelled on the lines of our great English 
Church School, without perceiving hot only 
the learning displayed in these works, but 
appreciating the inspiration they display. 
Their religious tone and earnestness, joined 
as this is to much that is modern in style, 
give them a devotional character that must 
be apparent to all who reflect and can judge. 
Conservatism, orthodoxy, and a love for classic 
outline and recognised form are the dis- 
tinguishing features of Ouseley's music ; there 
is nothing meretricious about it, nor does he 
ever indulge in display for the mere purpose 
of display. All is written for a purpose, and 
that purpose is one that cannot but commend 
itself to all true musicians. Unquestionably 
he had great gifts, but his training, his clerical 
life, and his natural inclinations prevented 
him from becoming what is termed an all- 
round composer. We must take the com- 
positions with which he has enriched our 
Church, and value them for what they are ; 
it is useless to lament that he wrote neither 
orchestral symphonies nor operas. He did 
his life-work right well ; let us prize that, and 
be thankful for the example of earnestness 
and duty fulfilled he has set us. 

Sir Frederick dearly loved his picturesque 
estate at Tenbury, and well he might. There 
stood the beautiful church he had built, 
where full choral service was performed by 
his highly trained choir daily, morning and 
evening, throughout the year. There was- 
located the collegiate school he had founded, 
and which has been carried on with such 
marked success for well-nigh a gene»tion. 
And there was the splendid library that his 
father and he had collected, a library rich in 
theological and historical works, and unsur- 



SIR FREDERICK USE LEY. 



29 



passed so far as musical literature was 
concerned. 

Of Sir Frederick's generosity and true 
kindness of heart many of his friends could 
say much. Busy as Sir Frederick was, he 
was always ready to preach sermons at choral 
festivals and organ openings ; it was a metier 
he took special pleasure over, and right 
well he carried out this duty. 

His death has bereaved the English world 
of music of a man of mark, of great culture, 
and of many powers. His friends, who 
appreciated his sterling qualities and esteemed 
him, will ever hold in regard the memory of 
one of the truest gentlemen with whom we 
are brought into contact in the course of our 
life. 

T. L. SOUTHGATE. 



From the Musical Standard. 
MUSIC IN OXFORD. 
The death of Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, 
the recognised head of the art in Oxford, leaves 
music in the University city in a state of inter- 
regnum, so to speak; a convenient occasion is 
thus afforded to take note of its general con- 
dition in Oxford, and further, to make some 
observations on the duties and opportunities 
appertaining to the occupant of the Chair of 
Music there. We are told that music was in 
the Quadriviu??i department of the seven arts 
taught in the monastic schools of the early 
ages, and the Universities, a concrete expan- 
sion of these primitive schools, enlarged and 
carried on their ancient curriculum. But it 
would seem that removed from the choral 
school of the monastery, the study became 
scholastic rather than practical. A pedantic 
acquaintance with the mathematical side of 
the art was hardly calculated to infuse life into 
the dry rules, a knowledge of which was quite 
sufficient to enable a scholar to pose as a 
musician, and indeed to advance a claim for a 
degree in the art. Discourses and "exercises" 
were regarded as of far more importance than 
the possession of technical skill, and so music, 
as we now understand the comprehensive apel- 
lation, met with little encouragement at the 
Universities. If a student showed an acquaint- 
ance with Boethius, and had mastered such 
rules as the curious may see set out in a dia- 
logue discourse to be found in the quaint pages 



of Thomas Morley {circa 1595), he was deemed 
one learned in the art and entitled to honour. 
Any daring innovator was frowned upon, and 
music was regarded as a scholastic acquire- 
ment, not as the emotional expression of an 
ethereal and refining art. Perhaps it is to this 
stiff scholasticism and artificiality we must 
ascribe the failure of the Universities to have 
founded a true English school of music — as 
musicians understand the expression — and 
that, despite the fact that the respective Chairs 
often have been occupied by men of genius 
whose compositions give evident proof that 
they were born musicians as well as mere 
lecturers, examiners, and teachers, and might 
well have founded or worthily carried on the 
traditions of a national school. It would seem 
that whereas all the other studies at Oxford 
and Cambridge have a distinct outcome in 
view, and the various Professorships were 
established for a clear practical purpose, yet 
in the case of an art and a science which so 
great an authority as Luther ranked next to 
theology, little of practical utility was accom- 
plished. Yet Heather, the founder of the 
music chair, distinctly aimed at instruction in 
the performance of music, and provided for it 
(the Music School Library contained the books 
primarily used for this purpose), yet music, 
qua music, was really never taught, and was 
deemed of so little importance that until lately 
candidates for degrees were not required to 
give any proof of their technical skill as apart 
from theoretical knowledge in the art they 
professed. To a future generation such an 
anomaly will appear well nigh incredible, but it 
is a paradoxical condition that has obtained 
from the foundation of the Universities down 
to our own day. The cry of "reform, reform," 
is a far reaching one ; it gathers strength 
daily ; and no place or institution can success- 
fully claim exemption from the demands its 
votaries press on us. The Universities have 
been wise, and to a very considerable extent 
have themselves initiated a reform in the 
musical acquirements expected from candi- 
dates presenting themselves for a degree. 
Thanks to the contention and action of the 
late Oxford Professor, incipient Bachelors of 
Music have to matriculate and pass certain 
standards before they can present themselves 
to the occupant of the Music Chair ; conse- 
quently, the general standard of knowledge 



3° 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



they ought to possess has been distinctly 
raised ; further, they are required to give proofs 
of their practical skill in the art they profess. 
This should be so. But it still leaves un- 
touched two important points. One is the 
want of any methodical and systematised 
higher instruction in the art from the Professor 
himself; the other, the absence of any official 
influence on music as permeating the Uni- 
versity itself (and it may be added, the town 
also),and emanating directly from the Professor 
of Music. Surely an influence of this character 
is a legitimate one ! Properly exercised it 
would be of inestimable benefit in instructing 
and directing the tastes of the youthful mem- 
bers of the University at a period of their lives 
when such orthodox directing is of incalculable 
importance in moulding the future aims and 
tastes of those who naturally spread themselves 
over the length and breadth of our land, and 
eventually become authorities andy»« of fresh 
instruction to others. In the case of those 
entering the church it ought to be compulsory 
that before ordination they should produce a 
testamur showing they have attained some 
knowledge of church music, and the conditions 
under which music becomes the handmaid of 
devotion, and renders the divine art so valuable 
a coadjutor in religious life. The question as 
to the means whereby these results are to be 
attained need not be discussed here, further 
than to indicate that serial historical and 
practical musical lectures should be thefounda- 
tion on which to build ; and concurrently with 
these primary features there should be some 
cheap system of affording instruction in teach- 
ing the various keyboard, stringed, and wind 
instruments to all ready to learn ; and lastly, 
to found and encourage musical societies 
having for their aims the study and perform- 
ance of practical music. 

It will thus be perceived that 'there is plenty 
of serious work for the Professor to do, if he is 
to uphold the dignity of the art he ministers 
to, and to make )iis influence over music in- 
the University properly felt. Up to the period 
of Sir Frederick Ouseley's appointment the 
office was little more than a sinecure. A 
certain amount of reform was introduced by 
requiring the Professor to lecture at least once 
during each term, and an attempt was made 
to give a practical tone to the duties by insti- 
tuting musical performances to be given under 



the direction of the Choragus ; but this part 
of the scheme failed; so the lectures, and 
examining the exercises of those seeking 
degrees form the only duties at present 
attached to the office. But public opinion now 
demands a radical change, and it will be the 
duty of those charged to elect the new Pro- 
fessor to take the whole question into long and 
careful consideration. Thaf the statutory 
duties will have to be revised and enlarged is 
certain. But the first thing which ought to be 
done is to raise the salary of the Professor to 
somewhat nearer the equivalent of that allotted 
to the occupants of the other professorial 
Chairs. On an appeal to the custodians of 
the University chest, no doubt means will be 
devised for effectuating this act of justice. 
The Oxford Professor is assigned the magnifi- 
cent sum of one hundred and thirty pounds 
per annum for his services ! At Cambridge 
the stipend is two hundred ; at Edinburgh Sir 
Herbert Oakeley receives about six hundred 
and twenty pounds a year for his services and 
allowances for assistant teachers. There is 
no endowment at Dublin, but Sir Robert 
Stewart, the Professor, holds the appointment 
of organist of Trinity College Chapel; he 
delivers courses of lectures, imparts practical 
instruction by training the University Choral 
Society, and conducts the orchestral concerts, 
which (after weekly rehearsals) are held about 
four times during the session. Sir Frederick 
Ouseley was an example of a Professor enjoy- 
ing ample private means, and, moreover, he 
occupied various official clerical positions that 
added to his income, so that the paltry salary 
and fees attaching to the office did not affect 
him. Indeed, so large-hearted, generous and 
devoted was he to the art he so loved, that no 
doubtthe cost of the illustrations of the lectures 
he gave from time to time, and various other 
expenses, more than swallowed up all the 
emoluments he received. But this condition 
of things must now be rectified. The labourer 
is worthy of his hire, and there is no reason 
why the Professor of Music should not be 
properly paid as are the Professors of Divinity, 
Hebrew, Greek, Poetry, and others holding 
important official positions. And there should 
be a reform in another respect. The Uni- 
versity may well claim that its Music Professor 
should be resident : that is to say, that he 
should always be in residence during the 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



3i 



Terms, not occupied in duties at the other end 
of the kingdom, or continually obliged to go 
to London to teach, conduct or play at 
concerts, or be closely connected with any 
institution elsewhere. If the electors appoint 
such a one, then music in Oxford must inevit- 
ably suffer, and instead of the University 
getting the chief and undivided attention of 
some competent man, ready to do daily work 
for it, all that it can expect will be a perfunctory 
half-hearted' service. As has been said on 
similar appointments before, what is wanted 
is a thoughtful, experienced and skilful teacher, 
a man who knows the art in all its phases, 
historically, acoustically, practically, a man 
who is a devotee of no one school, but has 
sympathies as wide as the art itself is bound- 
less, a man of broad culture and reading, able 
to discourse and illustrate his teaching by 
practical example, and as ready in the class- 
room and at the head of his orchestra as he is 
on the lecture-platform and in his private study 
when examining the contrapuntal exercises of 
those who appear before him to have their 
merits assessed. What is not wanted is some 
brilliant player or clever composer, or book- 
maker, or magazine article writer, who may 
exhibit these particular faculties, and little 
more : possibly grounding his claim for the 
office on past achievemenis, and regarding it 
as an additional honour to be attached to his 
name, rather than as a position of great res- 
ponsibility, entailing important duties on its 
occupant. 

(The musical organisations now flourishing in 
Oxford are here enumerated. ) 

It will thus be seen that music is in a condi- 
tion of healthy activity in the University city. 
Independently of the ornamental lectures, 
the examining of candidates " exercises " and 
any class teaching that may now be attached 
to the office, there is plenty of work in Oxford 
for a resident Professor to do and to advise 
upon : it is only right that he should exercise 
a legitimate and controlling influence on the 
various organisations allied to music in Oxford. 

The Professor of Music is nominated by an 
electorate which consists of nine Heads of 
Colleges and Professors. It is understood that 
personally they have no knowledge of , the art, 
and so are hardly in a position to determine 
what is required, and to fix upon the proper 
person to appoint. But these gentlemen will 



no doubt seek advice outside their limited 
body. Taking into consideration the great 
change that has come over public opinion as 
to the estimation in which music is now held, 
the demand that exists for reform and enlarge- 
ment of the duties attached to the office and 
beyond it, and the necessity there is for having 
a working and not a mere ornamental Pro- 
fessor, it may be assumed that the electorate 
will make an appointment beneficial to the 
art, and worthy of the great teaching institution 
itself. 

T. L. SOUTHGATE. 



Musical Times. 

The Rev. Sir Frederick Arthur Gore 
Ouseley died, after a sudden and painful 
attack of heart disease, at Hereford, on the 
6th ult. The news was received everywhere 
with profound sorrow by those who enjoyed 
the privilege of his friendship as well as by 
those who knew him only by name. He was 
a distinguished musician and a learned and 
accurate scholar, and the brilliancy of his 
accomplishments was only equalled by the 
amiability of his character and the bene- 
volence of his disposition. His place in the 
world, as marked by the influence he pos- 
sessed, will never be wholly filled; his works, 
however, will serve to keep his memory green, 
and the recollections of his many good actions 
will survive in the hearts of those who are 
acquainted with them. The record of his 
life is one of unostentatious goodness and 
unobtrusive earnestness in the performance 
of appointed labour. He was the only son of 
the Right Hon. Sir Gore Ouseley, the eminent 
Oriental scholar, who was successively Am- 
bassador and Minister Plenipotentiary to 
Persia and St. Petersburgh, by his marriage 
with Harriet Georgina, daughter of Mr. John 
Whitelocke. He was born in London in Aug- 
ust, 1825, consequently he was in the sixty^ 
fourth year of his age at the time of his death. 
He was called Frederick after the Duke of 
York, and Arthur after the Uuke of Welling- 
ton, his godfathers. He displayed unusual 
talent in music at an early age. His 
earliest effort at composition, made when 
he was five years old, was a work descriptive 
of his own sensations on recovery from severe 
illness. A waltz, written by him when he was 



32 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



seven, was printed in the " Harmonicon," 
and at eight he produced an opera, 
"L'isola disabitata." Many stories have 
been told of his extraordinary musical powers 
displayed in early infancy; these, however, 
derive their chief point from the ability of his 
later years. He was educated privately, and 
in 1843 entered Christ Church, Oxford, as a 
gentleman commoner. His father died in 
1844, and he succeeded to the baronetcy. 
He took his B.A. degree in 1846, his M.A. in 
1849 — in which year he was ordained deacon 
by the Bishop of London and became curate 
of St. Barnabas, Pimlico ; he took the degree 
of Mus. Bac. in 1850, and that of Mus. Doc. 
in 1854, the Oratorio "St. Polycarp" being 
the exercise for the latter purpose. He had 
conceived the idea of founding a College for 
the education of boys when he left his curacy 
in 1850, and carried it into operation first at 
Langley, near Slough. His scheme was 
further developed at Tenbury, where he 
erected a beautiful church and college, dedi- 
cated to St. Michael and All Angels, upon a 
portion of his property. The work carried 
on at St. Michael's cannot be too highly 
estimated. The College is not, as is often 
erroneously stated, one devoted solely to the 
purposes of music. The boys are trained for 
the Universities and other public careers, and 
there is a foundation for the maintenance of 
a daily choral service of the highest Cathedral 
pattern, so that, in the course of training, 
music is a prominent but not an indispensable 
feature. 

In the formation of this design as a 
permanent educational institution, Sir Fred- 
erick spent the greater part of his fortune, and 
it will stand as a monument of his beneficence 
and self-sacrifice. Attached to the College is 
the magnificent library, rich in the Oriental, 
theological, and topographical works formerly 
belonging to his father, and augmented by 
many valuable additions by himself. In the 
private rooms he occupied as Warden of the 
College is the choice musical library, which 
will also now probably become the property 
of the institution. In the collection of these 
precious volumes Sir Frederick took great 
pride. The library includes a large number 
of books from the Old Palais Royal Col- 
lection, with the Royal Arms of France 
stamped upon the sides, consisting of operas, 



vaudevilles, &c, by Lully, Colasse, Des- 
touches,Lalande,Campra,Rousseau,andmany 
other composers of whose works the names 
only survive. There is also a large collection 
of Italian sacred music of the Palestrina 
period, from the library of the late Abbe" 
Santini, of Rome; and a fine copy of "The 
Messiah," partly in the writing of Handel, 
partly in that of his amanuensis, J. C. Smith. 
This, which is known as the Dublin MS., was 
used by Handel for the first performance of 
the work in Dublin, and contains a number 
of annotations in his handwriting. There is 
among the autographs a large collection of 
vocal and instrumental pieces in the hand- 
writing of Dr. Crotch, a full score of a 
Symphony by Spohr, and autographs of 
Orlando di Lasso Benevoli, Blow, Croft, 
Buononcini, Travers, Boyce, Arnold, Mozart, 
Paganini, Mendelssohn, and others. The 
library is also rich in rare treatises, among 
which is the earliest and rarest " Gaffurius," 
published at Naples in 1480, with all the 
later editions. A complete copy, and, per- 
haps, the only one in England, of Eslava's 
" Lira Sacro-Hispana," a- printed collection of 
sacred music by Spanish writers, together 
with a number of full scores of modern works 
are among the treasures of the musical 
library. 

His own contributions to musical art were 
many. He published in 1853 a volume of 
his own services and anthems, and this was 
followed by a collection of services by 
English writers. His " Special Anthems for 
certain Seasons and Festivals of the Church " 
included the first works of many Church 
writers who have since become famous. His 
Oratorio "St. Polycarp" was published in 
1854, when he took his degree as Doctor of 
Music. He also published, in conjunction 
with Dr. E. G. Monk, late of York, the 
" Anglican Psalter and Chants," and later, by 
subscription, a collection of the hitherto un- 
published works of Orlando Gibbons. His 
compositions for the organ, upon which he 
was a remarkable executant, comprise three 
sets, one of six, one of seven, and one of 
eighteen preludes and fugues, besides two 
sonatas, three andantes, and six preludes. 
He also published a second Oratorio, 
" Hagar," wrritten for the Hereford Festival 
a set of six songs, words by the Rev. R 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



33 



Wilton, and he was the composer of a large 
number of anthems, some with orchestral 
accompaniments, and many glees, madrigals, 
and part-songs still unpublished. His 
labours as Professor of Music at the Univer- 
sity of Oxford have been said to be less 
eventful than they might have been, consider- 
ing the extent of his official and personal 
influence. It should be remembered, how- 
ever, that when he succeeded to the chair of 
music in 1855, on the death of Sir Henry 
Bishop, he had many prejudices to fight 
against. His own Dean (Dr. Gaisford) told 
him that it was unbecoming for a man in his 
position to present himself for examination 
in music in the University. His acceptance 
of the Professorship removed this contumely, 
and raised the standard of the degrees. He 
also strove by adding literary qualifications 
to the subjects for examination in music to 
make the degrees proportionately equal in 
dignity to the other grades of the University, 
so that at the time of his death some of the 
best and most learned musicians of the time 
held Oxford musical degrees. The power of 
granting degrees honoris causa possessed by 
the University, was revived- in his days, and 
would doubtless have been exercised to a 
.still greater extent had he possessed all the 
power to nominate the recipients which he 
was supposed to possess by the outside world. 
As a musician he was endowed with extraor- 
dinary powers. His musical memory was 
astonishing. His skill in extempore playing 
upon the organ and pianoforte was un- 
equalled. His facility and ingenuity in 
dealing with suggested or improvised themes 
was especially remarkable. His talents as a 
musician, great as they were in composition, 
found their best and most congenial expres- 
sion in his impromptu performances. His 
writings seem to have been dictated by a 
■conscientious following of a plan laid down 
in early life, and to have been for the most 
part more indicative of scholarship than 
poetic feeling. That he was not deficient in 
this latter quality was well known to those 
who enjoyed the privilege of his acquaintance. 
He could tell a story with rare recognition of 
its points, and he was always ready to offer 
cordial and sympathetic appreciation of the 
.like talent in others. His tastes were simple, 
iiis love for literature deep and wide, and 



simple and unaffected piety was one of his 
chief characteristics. Nothing could better 
show this than the fact that he devoted the 
best energies of his life and the greater part 
of his fortune to the foundation and mainten- 
ance of St. Michael's College. His hospitality 
was boundless. All who had any interest in 
music or education were welcome under his 
roof. There, within the peaceful walls of the 
College, men of all shades of honest opinion 
were wont to be brought together, and through 
the kindly influence of their host learned to 
love each other and to be tolerant of views 
adverse to their own. Like every man of 
true-hearted honesty he had a profound con- 
tempt for imposture or charlatanism; if an 
object was good he was content to give it the 
strength of his support, even though the 
promoters were not always as right minded 
as himself. How many who are now actively 
engaged in music, in and out of the service 
of the Church, minor canons, vicars-choral, 
organists, lay clerks, and others are indebted 
to him for much kindly aid and encourage- 
ment, cannot now be measured. He was a 
friend to all who sought his help and whom 
he deemed to be worthy of it. The purity of 
his character led him to judge all with a like 
singleness of purpose as that which moved his 
own actions ; therefore his influence among 
men will not cease even though the power to 
direct it has been taken away from him 
through death. 

He was buried in the churchyard of St. 
Michael's, Tenbury, under the East window 
of the Church and College which his unselfish 
benevolence had called into being. His 
funeral was attended by numbers of mourn- 
ing friends, including representatives of the 
Cathedral of Hereford, where he was Precentor 
and Canon, of the Universities of Oxford, 
Cambridge, Dublin, and Edinburgh, whose 
degrees he held ; and of the body of Free- 
masons to which he belonged. 



Fkom the Pall Mall Gazette. 

The Pall Mall Gazette says that few who 
had not the good fortune to be on terms of 
intimacy with the Rev. Canon Sir Frederick 
Arthur Gore Ouseley could have any idea of 
the extent and depth of his musical knowledge. 
The godchild of the Dukes of York and 



34 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



Wellington — after whom he was named — he 
showed wonderful musical power at the 
tenderest age. At four he played the piano 
for the servants to dance to, and at eight he 
had composed an Italian operetta- — solos, 
choruses, and all. While still a child he was 
taken by his father — who at the time was free 
from his Ambassadorial duties — to a concert 
to hear Beethoven's Concerto in E. No 
sooner had the performance begun than the 
child whispered hastily, " That's not in E ; 
it's in F." "Nonsense," replied his father, 
" It's in E ; it's the well-known work in E ; 
there, you see it on the programme." But 
the boy insisted with so much earnestness 
that the father addressed the conductor after- 
wards on the subject, and found that to suit 
some wind instrument the pitch had been 
raised, so as to bring it practically to F. Sir 
Frederick was one of the few musicians of our 
time who could claim to have played duets 
with Mendelssohn and the Queen. The in- 
timacy of his acquaintance with nearly all 
written music of a high stamp — or, at least, 
a high aim — was extraordinary. A certain 
exercise was one day brought before him, as 
examiner, to pass. It was not bad enough to 
reject, and he was on the point of passing it, 
when he recognised it as an indifferent passage 
in the indifferent oratorio, Russell's "Job." 
His musical friends could doubtless __ record 
many a similar incident. 



From the Piccadilly. 

Few men deserve biographical honour more 
than Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, who, as 
Professor of Music at Oxford, as a writer of 
sacred music, and as head of St. Michael's, 
Tenbury, enjoyed great popularity for up- 
wards of a quarter or a century. Both from 
a social and a musical point of view the 
gatherings at St. Michael's were delightful ; 
and in that deadly-dull little Herefordshire 
town you rubbed shoulders once a year at 
least with composers, players, and critics of 
not merely London renown. The musical 
baronet was a most genial man, an admirable 
talker, full of reminiscence and gossip ; a 
teacher at once painstaking, and anxious to 
impart some of his abundant knowledge to all 
who studied under or cared to consult him. 
The brief notices which have appeared in the 



daily papers can give no idea of the deep 
sorrow which is felt in the Midlands at the 
loss of such a man as Sir Frederick Ouseley, 
whose name was a household word in 
Worcestershire, Herefordshire, and Glouces- 
tershire. 

From the Record. 

Death of Sir F. Ouseley. — The Rev. 
Canon Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, of St. 
Michael's College, the Old Wood, Tenbury, 
died suddenly on Saturday in the Hereford 
branch of the Birmingham, Dudley, and 
District Bank. He was the only son of the 
first baronet, the Right Hon. Sir Gore Ouseley, 
G.C.H., F.R.S., who was successively Am- 
bassador and Minister Plenipotentiary to 
Persia and St. Petersburg. He early dis- 
played great inclination for the study of music, 
for which, indeed, the Times says, he possessed 
no common talent. He graduated B.A. in 
1846, and in 1849 proceeded to his M.A. 
degree, in which year also he was ordained a 
deacon by the Bishop of London, and nomin- 
ated to the curacy of St. Paul's, Knightsbridge. 
Upon his property at Tenbury, known as the 
Old Wood, he erected in 1856, at his own 
expense, the beautiful church dedicated to 
St. Michael and All Angels, of which he was 
the first vicar, and in the same year he became 
Warden of St. Michael's College, Tenbury, 
where he formed a musical library, consisting 
of some 2,000 volumes, which is regarded as 
the most valuable and extensive private col- 
lection in the kingdom. In 1855, on the 
death of Sir Henry Bishop, he was appointed 
Professor of Music, in the University of 
Oxford, and the same year Precentor of 
Hereford Cathedral, which office he filled till 
1886, when he was appointed Canon. He 
was an Honorary Student of Christ Church, 
received the honorary degree of LL.D. at 
Cambridge in 1883, and at Edinburgh in the 
following year, and was Proctor for the 
Chapter of Hereford in the Lower House of 
Convocation. His musical compositions have 
been both numerous and successful. 



From the Times, April 8th, 1889. 

We regret to announce the death of the 
Rev. Canon Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, of 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



35 



St Michael's College, Tenbury, which took 
place suddenly on Saturday in the Hereford 
branch of the Birmingham, Dudley, and 
District Bank. He was the only son of the 
first baronet, the Right Hon. SirGore Ouseley, 
G.C.H., F.R.S., who was successively Am- 
bassador and Minister Plenipotentiary to 
Persia and St. Petersburgh, by his marriage 
with Harriet Georgina, daughter of Mr. John 
Whitelocke, and was born in London in 
August, 1825. He early displayed great in- 
clination for the study of music, for which, 
indeed, he possessed no common talent. 
After a private school education he was 
entered as a gentleman commoner at Christ 
Church, Oxford. Shortly after he had taken 
up his residence in Oxford his father died, and 
he accordingly, in 1844. succeeded to the 
title as second baronet Two years later he 
graduated B.A., and in 1849 proceeded to 
his M.A. degree, in which year also he was 
ordained a deacon by the Bishop of London, 
and nominated to the curacy of St. Paul's, 
Knightsbridge, which he resigned in the 
latter part of 1850 or the beginning of 1851. 
The choir of the church was also dispersed, 
but most of these he gathered around him at 
Love-hill house, near Langley Marish, in 
Buckinghamshire. Upon his property at Ten- 
bury, known as the Old Wood, he erected in 
1856, at his own expense, the beautiful church 
dedicated to St Michael and All Angels, of 
which he was the first vicar, he having been 
admitted to priest's orders in the preceding 
year by the Bishop of Hereford. He took 
the degree of Mus. Bac. in 1850, and in 1854 
that of Mus. Doc., and in the same year in 
which he became vicar of St Michael's and 
All Angels he was appointed warden of St. 
Michael's College, Tenbury, where he formed 
a musical library, consisting of some 2,000 
volumes, which is regarded as the most val- 
uable and extensive private collection in the 
kingdom. In 1855, on the death of Sir 
Henry Bishop, he was appointed Professor of 
Music in the University of Oxford, and the 
same year Precentor of Hereford Cathedral, 
which office he filled till 1886, when he was 
appointed canon. He was an honorary 
Student of Christ Church, received the hon- 
orary degree of LL.D. at Cambridge in 1883 
and at Edinburgh in the following year, and 
was proctor for the Chapter in Hereford in 



the Lower House of Convocation. His 
musical compositions have been both numer- 
ous and successful. In 1853 he published 
two works, " Services and Anthems " and a 
" Collection of Services," and the following 
year his oratorio of St. Polycarp. His other 
works include many anthems, of which the 
most popular is " How goodly are thy tents, 
O Israel," and he was the editor of two 
volumes of "Special Anthems for Certain 
Seasons and Festivals of the Church," and of 
the "Sacred Works of Orlando Gibbons," 
and in conjunction with Dr. Monk, whom he 
has not long survived, " Anglican Psalter 
Chants." His treatises on harmony, on 
counterpoint, canon, and fugue, and on musi- 
cal form and general composition, published 
in the Clarendon Press series, are valuable 
contributions to musical literature, and have 
taken their place as standard works. Sir 
Frederick Ouseley was also the author of a 
sacred oratorio in two parts, Hagar, the 
words of which were selected from Scripture 
by the Rev. J. R. G. Taylor, and of numerous 
sermons, lectures, &c. 



From the Times, April 24TH. 

THE LATE SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 

TO THE EDITOR OF THE TIMES. 

Sir, — In these days of scholarships in mem- 
ory of eminent musicians I hoped to have 
seen ere now some public suggestion as to 
worthily commemorating the valuable services 
to musical education and to Church music 
rendered by the distinguished Oxford pro- 
fessor recently deceased- 

It will naturally occur to many of his 
admirers that by his foundation of St 
Michael's College, near Tenbury, to which 
he gave his heart and his fortune, he has 
himself raised a noble monument — which it is 
eamesdy to be hoped will be permanent — of 
the unselfishness and charity which were his 
characteristics. 

But I think it must have also occurred to 
his musical friends that the existence of that 
interesting establishment ought not to pre- 
clude commemoration in the form adopted in 
this country in the case of some other great 
musicians, both native and foreign, including 
recent professors of music at the University 
at Cambridge. And it seems to some of us 



36 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



desirable that the authorities at Oxford should 
be approached regarding foundation and en- 
dowment at that University of a bursary or 
scholarship for special benefit of students 
exhibiting marked proficiency in branches of 
the art in which Sir Frederick was such a 
master — namely, in canon, counterpoint, and 
fugue. 

It will be generally acknowledged that, after 
34 years of eminent services to his University, 
during which period he was enabled so 
greatly, to raise the standard and the worth of 
degrees in the faculty of which he was pro- 
fessor, he has earned a claim for the most 
permanent and beneficial form of memorial 
that can be raised in his honour. And in 
advancing a movement in this direction, 
which ought not only to be academic, but 
national, his friends and others, while striving 
to perpetuate the memory of one who since 
his undergraduate days at Christ Church has 
been a renowned ecclesiastical composer, and 
who possessed masterly ability as an organist, 
would feel that they were not only promot- 
ing lasting remembrance of a distinguished 
musician, but of a sound Churchman, of a 
true gentleman by birth and education, and 
of a genial and faithful friend, whose sterling 
qualities of head and of heart have for so 
many years secured general esteem for the 
name of Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley. 

Yours faithfully, 

Herbert Oakeley. 
Cologne, April 20. 

This letter appeared in a large number of other 
publications. 



The Editor of the Musical Times 
observes : — 

We quite endorse Sir Herbert Oakeley's 
views on the subject of commemorating the 
deceased Professor so much beloved in life 
by the foundation of a Scholarship at Oxford, 
the result of a national subscription. But it 
is possible that the memorial which would 
have been most gratifying to Sir Frederick 
would be effected by enlarging the scope of 
the educational scheme carried on at St. 
Michael's, Tenbury, by a further endowment 
of the College, for the establishment of which 
Sir Frederick spent so much of his personal 
energy and his private means. — Ed. M. T, 



IN MEMORIAM.— THE LATE SIR 
F. A. G. OUSELEY. 

No event which has occurred in this neigh- 
bourhood for many years past has created such 
intense and widespread grief as the sudden 
death of the Rev. Canon Sir F. A. G. 
Ouseley. To those who have known him 
intimately for upwards of 30 years, the loss is 
irreparable. He has devoted his life and his 
substance to carrying out one supreme object, 
viz, : the training of the young to fulfil their 
duty as Churchmen and Christian gentlemen, 
and to render the services of the sanctuary in 
in their most perfect form. In 1852 he col- 
lected together a number of boys at Lovehill 
House, Langley, and erected a temporary 
chapel, in which they were trained in the 
devout worship of their Master. In the mean- 
time he was engaged in building and prepar- 
ing, at the cost of ,£30,000, the noble and 
beautiful Church and College of St. Michael's, 
Tenbury. In this work, while carrying out 
his primary object, he also provided a Church 
for a scattered district, taken out of the 
parishes of Tenbury, Leysters, and Middleton- 
on-the-Hill, with an adequate endowment 
and a good Vicarage House. He afterwards 
added parochial schools and master's house. 
In 1855 he was appointed to the Precentor- 
ship of Hereford, but without any stipend, 
the annual endowment of £500 previously 
annexed to such office having been devoted 
to other purposes under the operation of the 
Cathedral Act, In the same year he was 
appointed Professor of Music at Oxford, and 
in 1886 he was promoted to a residentiary 
Canonry at Hereford. On Michaelmas Day, 
1856, the Church of St. Michael's, Tenbury, 
was consecrated by Bishop Hampden, and 
Sir F. Ouseley became the first Vicar and 
Warden of the College, and from that time 
daily Cathedral service in its most perfect 
form has been carried on continuously. The 
choristers are the sons of gentlemen, with a 
special preference for the sons of the clergy, 
the eight senior boys receiving an education 
free of expense, and the eight juniors for a 
very small annual payment ; the latter succeed 
to the benefits enjoyed by the seniors as 
vacancies occur. A few other boys are ad- 
mitted to the school on higher terms. In 
carrying out this scheme Sir Frederick 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



37 



Ouseley devoted an annual sum of about 
;£t,8oo towards the funds of the College. At 
the same time his purse was always open to 
the calls of the widow and the orphan, and to 
others in distress. In order to provide this 
great outlay he exercised an amount of self- 
denial, of which none but his intimate 
friends have any conception. 

Few persons can realise the extent of the 
loss sustained by the Church at large, and 
particularly by the Diocese of Hereford, by 
his death, as also how impossible it will be 
to supply his place among us. The devotion 
of himself and his substance to the service 
of his Great Master, his unselfishness, his 
self-denial, his extreme kindliness, and his 
unaffected piety, afford a great example to us 
all. 

In the words of another writer, we must 
express " our sincere hope that the noble In- 
stitution raised by him with such singular 
self-devotion may be perpetuated and flourish 
as a monument to the rare genius and true 
nobility of character and aim of its founder." 

W. N. 

Tenbury, April nth, 1889. 



From the Society Herald, May 4TH. 
A proposal is on foot to found a scholar- 
ship for proficiency in music, tenable at 
Oxford, by way of memorial to the late Sir 
Frederick Gore Ouseley. It is a thousand 
pities that the memorial, if there is to be one, 
cannot take some more practically useful 
shape. There is absolutely no machinery — 
unless a solitary professor can be so described 
— for teaching music at the University, and 
the numerous Mus. Baes. who hail therefrom 
are almost all men who have merely been ex- 
amined at Oxford, and have obtained their 
education in the subject at the Royal 
Academy, Trinity College, or elsewhere. A 
stained glass window would be a great deal 
more to the point than a scholarship. 

From the Globe. 

SIR F. A GORE OUSELEY AT 
OXFORD. 

(from a correspondent.) 
I first knew Mr. Ouseley (as he was then) 
before he came into the title in 1844. He 



had always worn the gentleman-commoner's 
velvet cap and silk gown, but whe'n the time 
came to call him Sir Freddy, the pet name 
among us was "the Bart." He was a general 
favourite, though not apparently rich, which 
might partly be owing to the handsome 
allowance which I know he made to his 
two sisters, but he was always ready to play 
to us, and I can see him now, jumping from 
side to side on the music stool, for he never 
sat still a minute, and his thin legs were never 
quiet directly he began to get absorbed. 
Most of his playing was extempore, and it 
was our frequent amusement to make him 
play two airs at the same time, say, " God 
Save the Queen " with the right hand, and 
"Rule Britannia" with the left, which he did 
with the greatest ease and with many varia- 
tions, sometimes quite in Bach's manner, with 
fugue-like character, but always, of course, in 
perfect harmony. 

He and (a) Havergal, who also died before 
he was old, got up an oratorio at Oxford, 
which was performed in New College Hall. 
It was Handel's " Samson," and I, for one, 
sang in it. Ouseley took the alto solo and 
executed a shake, in falsetto, on the words 
"abyss of woe." Old Henry Phillips was 
brought down from town to sing the bass 
solos, and I can see him sitting sideways on 
a chair at rehearsal, with a short cloak thrown 



(a) The " Havergal " here mentioned was my elder 
and only brother, the Rev. Henry East Havergal, 
Chaplain of New College and Christ Church, 1842 to 
1847, when he became Vicar of Cople, Bedfordshire, 
where he died 12th January, 1875, aged 54. He and 
Sir F. Ouseley were much thrown together at Oxford, 
both being musical enthusiasts and possessing alto 
voices. In a performance of Dr. Crotch's ' ' Palestine " 
he sang the alto part in the choruses, and played the 
double bass at the same time. He also played the 
trumpet and other instruments. For his Church at 
Cople he built a remarkable Organ, playing it gener- 
ally himself. His Choir consisted chiefly of young 
women, whom he trained to sing Hymns and Anthems 
from his own arrangements in three parts. ' Sir F. 
Ouseley was godfather to my brother's eldest son 
Arthur, and to my eldest daughter Bertha, and 
through life he never failed to take an interest in their 
welfare. Arthur Havergal was a probationer and 
chorister at St. Michael's, September, 1859, to July, 
1864, and has carried his love for music all over the 
world, having been in H.M.S. Challenger and other 
surveying expeditions, and latterly, when in Command 
of H.M.S. Sparrowhawk, he conducted the survey of 
the West Indies. 



38 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



theatrically over his shoulder. I think 
Lockey came down also to sing " Total 
eclipse " and the other tenor music. Lockey 
was of Oxford parentage and a great favourite, 
an exception to "a prophet in his own 
country." Havergal was the .-first Christ 
Church chaplain to attempt to revive inton- 
ing the prayers, &c, which had quite dropped 
out of use; and, in fact, there was not one of 
them, beginning with dear old (b) Hackman 
(the precentor), who could do it. It was 
Hackman who could give anybody else a 
start in the Creed up to Pontius Pilate, and 
then beat him hollow. Soon after this, Dr. 
Marshall, then Organist of the Cathedral, 
retired, and Sir Frederick Ouseley used his 
best influence to get "a gentleman of the 
name of (c) Higgins '' (not the " Jacob 
Omnium " of the Times) appointed. Mr. 
Higgins was tall and thin, but not to the 
6ft. 7in. extent of J. O. He wore a red 
Scotch plaid double-breasted waistcoat, but, 
nevertheless, Dean Gaisford gave the appoint- 
ment to Mr. Corfe, and Ouseley told me that 
the Dean said the testimonials of the latter 
were overwhelming. Certainly there was no 
man among the Dean and Chapter of Christ 
Church at that day except, perhaps, Dr. Bull, 
who had any pretention to musical know- 
ledge. However, Dr. Corfe was appointed, 
"who, though coming of a musical stock, and 
with a brother at Bristol an Organist of note, 
was not a great organ player ; but he was a 
charming fellow, of fine presence, and had a 
pretty young wife. When he took his Mus. 
Doc. degree, some admirer presented him 
anonymously with a lovely full-dress gown of 
figured satin, which is worn on State occasions 
with great dignity. By this time, Sir F. Ouse- 
ley and he were great friends, and the latter 

(b) It was not Hackman, but Ashworth, a young 
Christ Church Chaplain, of which this was said, who 
was afterwards Fellow of B.N.C 

(c) This gentleman's name was Marcellus Higgs, 
not Higgins. He was a Chapel Royal boy, a very 
good Musician, and would probably have proved a 
better Organist than Corfe, although he certainly 
would not have made his mark on music in Oxford, 
as Corfe undoubtedly did. Sir F. Ouseley told an 
amusing incident, to a mutual friend, of a walk he took 
with Higgs to Abingdon, where, with some difficulty, 
they got access to the Organ of St. Helen's Church, 
which is by Renatus Harris, in a remarkably fine case. 
Both played it for some time, and then left it -with 
the keyboard open and all the stops pulled out ! 



was the first (d) Choragus of the University 
after the former had obtained the revival of 
that ancient dignitary, which he accomplished 
soon after he was appointed to the Professor- 
ship of Music at Oxford in succession to Sir 
Henry Bishop. After Ouseley had been 
persuaded to extemporise, mixing up two or 
three airs at a time, as I before mentioned, 
we used to get Corfe to play " Little Bo 
Peep " as if set by Spohr, and then by Men- 
delssohn, and then by Handel ; and Ouseley 
was one of the first to appreciate it. 

Besides his many other charming qualities. 
Ouseley was a thoroughly good-natured fellow, 
In those days albums had not gone out of 
date, and we used to pester our friends to 
contribute. I have now lying before me 
Ouseley's contribution to mine, which, as he 
never aspired to poetry on his own account, 
was another instance of his good nature. It 
was a copy of a song of Sir Walter Scott's, 
and he signed it (e) " FAGO," another of his 
names, among us. He taught me, too, a 
couple of cyphers, in which we might carry 
on a correspondence. One was his own in- 
vention, and one was, he said, originally and 
before it became known, an old Masonic 
cypher. Another Amusement of his was 
capping verses, at which he was an adept ; 
and to entertain boys, he would take infinite 
pains to construct a Hampton Court maze, a 
most laborious pen and ink proceeding, where 
he delighted in throwing every difficulty in 
the way of your finding your way in with a 
pin. Of his more mature years I know 
nothing except by repute, but I do know the 
very high opinion of him entertained by my 
old friend Mr. Bennett, of St. Paul's, Knights- 
bridge, and afterwards of Frome Selwood. 
It would be curious if " the Bart." should be 
succeeded in the Oxford Professorship by one 
of his own boys, who, at his College at Ten- 
bury, was known as (f) " little Johnny 
Stainer," but whose trumpet, as he is the only 
survivor of the persons mentioned above, I 
am not going to blow. 



(d) It is a mistake that Corfe was the first Choragus. 
Dr. Elvey succeeded Dr. Crotch as Choragus in 1848, 
when Sir H. Bishop succeeded him as Professor. It 
was on Dr. Elvey's death, in i860, that Corfe became 
Choragus, till that year he was the first Coryphoeus or 
Precentor. Dr. Haynes succeeded him, and after his 



SIR FREDERICK USE LEY. 



39 



From Modern Truth. 

Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley has bequeathed 
his valuable musical library to the trustees of 
St. Michael's College, Tenbury, or, if they 
refuse it, to the Bodleian, Oxford. 



From The World. 

The vacancy at St. Michael's, Tenbury, 
caused by the death of Sir Frederick Ouseley, 
will be filled on May the 2nd, when the 
fellows meet to appoint. The wardenship, 
with the living of Old Wood, which goes with 
it, is worth about ^400 per annum, and no 
doubt will be offered to Sir Frederick's old 
colleague, the Rev. T. Hampton, who is 
now sub-warden of the College. This gentle- 
man attracted Sir Frederick's notice as a 
chorister at All Saints', Knightsbridge, in Mr. 
Bennett's time, and was ever afterwards 
favoured with his patronage and friendship. 



The daily papers are all wrong in stating 
that the musical library owned by Sir Frederick 
Ouseley will come into the market, as it and 
all the rest of Sir Frederick's possessions are 
left to the College, and, in the event of its 
abolition, to the Bodleian. St. Michael's is 
the residuary legatee, and will be now fairly 
endowed ; so that it ought to succeed well, 
especially as it is situated in a most beautiful 
part of the country, where schools of the kind 
are scarce. The buildings are perfect, and 
there seems nothing to prevent the school 
from becoming a leading preparatory for its 
bigger brothers. There is also the extra 
attraction of one of the best Cathedral Ser- 
vices in England. 



Sir Frederick Ouseley was unmarried, and 
the baronetcy, conferred upon his father, is 
now extinct. He was a godson of the Duke 
of York, and of the first Duke of Wellington. 
His father, the distinguished diplomatist and 

death, the office was not filled up, and is still in 
abeyance. 

(e) "Fago" was signed musically with the notes 
in the Clef, as appears in a letter from him to 
F. T. H. 

(f) Stainer was a St. Paul's boy, never a Chorister 
at St. Michael's, but he went there as Organist in 
1857 to i860. 



Orientalist, died in 1844, at his place, Hall 
Barn, in Buckinghamshire, now the property 
of Mr. Edward Lawson, and formerly of the 
poet Waller, from whose direct representatives 
Sir Gore Ouseley purchased it. 



A writer in the Guardian, in a notice of 
the late Rev. Sir F. A. Gore Ouseley, says : — 
" No parish in the diocese of Hereford was 
better cared for than this, both by himself and 
by his earnest and helpful curate and friend, 
and, as it is hoped, his successor at St. 
Michael's, John Hampton. He was a care- 
ful, earnest, and eloquent preacher. He 
usually preached written sermons, but could 
preach an extempore sermon when occasion 
called for it with most telling effect, which, 
however, he attained with no effort, for he 
was far too natural and simple-minded a man 
to attempt anything of the kind." " His 
promotion of the study of music not only in 
Oxford, but throughout England, is well- 
known, as also the improvement and new 
life which, from the time of his appointment 
to its Precentorship, he infused into the ser- 
vices of Hereford Cathedral. Through all 
his self-denying life he had given to the 
Church, for even the modest endowment of 
the vicarage of St. Michael's was his own 
gift ; he had sunk ^40,000 in the College ; 
and he spent ^'2,000 a year on its sustenance." 
In the last three years of his life he received 
the one acknowledgment of his self-sacrifice 
in the canonry of Hereford Cathedral, to 
which he was appointed by the Bishop in 
1886." 



From L. J. T. D. in the Church Times. 

Sir,— Your notice of the late Sir F. Ouseley 
mentions that " he early displayed great incli- 
nation for the study of music." But how 
precocious a musician he was is not generally 
known. In "Sacred Minstrelsy," Vol. I. 
(1834), I find this note: — "The present 
period furnishes a still more extraordinary in- 
stance of precocity (than Mozart's) in the 
person of the son of the Right Hon. Sir Gore 
Ouseley, who, at the age of five, invented and 
played on the pianoforte compositions not 
only far superior to any recorded of infantine 
genius, but possessing merit of a positive as 



4° 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



well as relative kind. These, as produced, 
were faithfully written down by Miss Ouseley, 
an able musician, the child's eldest sister, and 
remain undisputed, irrefragable evidence of 
the reality of this intellectual phenomenon." 

L. J. T. D. 



A Christ Church contemporary of his writes 
in the Globe that it would be strange if one 
of his own boys, "little Johnny Stainer," 
should succeed him as Professor of Music at 
Oxford. Stainer never was one of his boys. 
He was a chorister of St. Paul's, and a pupil 
of Sir John Goss and George Cooper. The 
writer in the Globe (of the 12th inst.) says he 
had lost sight of Sir Frederick in his maturer 
years. I was with him when Stainer arrived 
(being, I admit, little more then than a boy) 
to take the post of Organist of St. Michael's ; 
I knew him most intimately, not only before 
but during the whole of his long connection 
with St. Michael's; and I was his (last) visitor 
just before he left St. Michael's never to 
return to it alive. I can safely say, therefore, 
that Stainer was never a St. Michael's boy ; 
for, though doubtless he learned much there, 
he went there not to learn but to teach. 

The name of the gentleman for whom Sir 
Frederick used his influence to secure his 
appointment as Organist of Christ Church, on 
the resignation of Dr. Marshall, was not 
Higgins. It was a well-known and accom- 
plished musician — an old Chapel Royal boy, 
named Marcellus Higgs. 

A simple and unostentatious piety was 
among Sir Frederick's characteristics. It is 
not long since that he told me of a Sunday in 
his earlier days at Oxford, how delighted he 
was when Mr. Boyle, now Earl of Glasgow, 
also a gentleman commoner of Christ Church, 
came to him and said : " Ouseley, we are 
both of us unwell, and have neither of us 
been able to attend Chapel to-day ; let us 
read part of the Church service together." 

That he should have known Dean Gaisford 
well was inseparable from his connection with 
Christ Church. There have been those who 
imagined that because Dean Gaisford occu- 
pied a position of great dignity, and was a 
man of exceptional learning, he therefore 
knew nothing of the junior members of his 
•College. Many could testify to the acts of 
kindness done by Gaisford to undergraduates, 



and not least to servitors, But Sir Frederick 
Ouseley knew him in perhaps an exceptional 
manner. Just before the Ter-centenary of 
the foundation of Christ Church, Ouseley 
called on the Dean to ask his permission for 
a Concert (a) in the Hall as an item in the 
celebration. " Concert, sir," said the Dean, 
with unusual brusqueness, "certainly not, sir, 
certainly not; and besides, sir, there's no 
precedent for it." But Sir Frederick begged 
to remind the Dean that there was such a 
precedent, as a Concert had formed part of 
the Bi-centenary celebration. "Leave the 
room, sir, leave the room," was the only reply 
of the (at times) somewhat peremptory 
magnate. But he asked Sir Frederick to dine 
with him the next day when his habitual 
kindness and courtesy had returned. Dean 
Gaisford was eminently unmusical. If he did 
not hate music it is as much as can be said. 
And from his point of view he, as also Dr. 
Bull, used all his influence to dissuade Sir 
Frederick from taking the degree in music to 
which he was an ornament, and with which 
as a fulcrum he did so much to promote the 
study of music and to help forward all musical 
students. But Sir Frederick, much as he 
liked and respected Gaisford and Bull, in tfyis 
respect also held his own ; and soon after he 
took his doctor's degree both Gaisford and 
Bull invited him to dine with them, and both 
had gathered together to meet him men of 
his own views and tastes. But if there was 
one event which gratified Sir Frederick more 
than another it was, when his doctor's exercise 
was performed in the Sheldonian Theatre, 
shortly before the hour for commencement, 
to see the unmusical Dean Gaisford walk in. 
It could only have been as a kindly compli- 
ment to a distinguished alumnus of " The 
House" that he was present ; and Sir Freder- 
ick was more than delighted when the great 
scholar afterwards told him how much he had 
been gratified. 



Musical Opinion. 
Sir, — The musical and ecclesiastical world 
have to suffer a great, an irreparable loss by 
the recent somewhat sudden demise of this 

(a) It must have required considerable courage in 
Sir F. Ouseley to make this request to such an im- 
perious magnate, as Concerts in College Halls were 
unheard of in those days. 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



41 



amiable and singularly able gentleman, who 
was not only a gentleman but a scholar of 
the highest attainments. Sir Frederick A. 
Gore Ouseley was indeed a rara avis, one of 
those with whom music was a born gift, the 
divine gift having been nursed and developed 
throughout his long industrious life. As a 
composer his distinguished abilities are dis- 
played by the production of two oratorios — 
" St. Polycarp," and " Hagar," by a large 
number of finely constructed anthems, church 
services, organ sonatas, fugues, and volun- 
taries, in all of which he showed a mastery 
over form, as well as a complete knowledge 
of harmony, counterpoint, canon, and fugue. 
On these later subjects he published treatises 
in 1868 and 1875, which have now become 
standard test and reference books for teachers 
and students. 

In a recent biography of him it is correctly 
stated that " Sir V. A. G. Ouseley is one of 
the ablest and most widely respected musicians 
in Britain. The amount of practical good 
which he has done is great, and his influence 
is no less potent than widespread. As a 
didactic writer, a composer, and an organist, 
he is equally well known ; while his ability as 
a musical professor is great and beneficial 
to art." 

Only a few months ago I had several 
letters from him on various subjects (his 
caligraphy, both ordinarily and musical, was 
splendid and characteristic), but chiefly about 
a Voluntary (Postlude) in E fiat, a beautiful 
work which he composed for the January part 
of the Organist's Quarterly Journal, in the 
issue of which he always took great interest. 

Sir Frederick Ouseley was never married, 
but he took a deep interest in the welfare 
and education of the choir boys and those 
other students who were fortunate enough 
to be members of his College, upon which he 
had expended the greater part of his fortune 
and income. 

Not only as a composer, but as a pianist 
and organist, he was highly accomplished, 
displaying in extemporaneous organ playing 
(especially fugues) an amount of natural gifts 
and experienced knowledge that often aston- 
ished, as well delighted, the connoisseurs who 
were privileged to listen to him. The pro- 
fession to which he was proud to belong has 
lost a chief who beautified and elevated' 



whatever he touched, and who was a true 
nobleman, adorning the divine art with his 
rare talents, as well as with every social and 
moral virtue. He will be greatly- missed, and 
" take him for all in all, we shall not look 
upon his like again." 

WILLIAM SPARK, 

Organist of the Town Hall. 
Newton Park, Leeds, 
April, 1889. 



Hereford Times. 
"The History of Music." — Among the 
many invaluable services rendered to the 
cause of music by the late Rev. Sir F. A. Gore 
Ouseley, was that of editing the translation 
of Emil Naumann's " History of Music," a 
new serial edition of which is now being 
published by Cassell and Co. ; and his sudden 
removal by death lends a new interest to the 
work. Of the apparently inexhaustible series 
of publications issued in sections by the 
famous firm named, this " History of Music" 
is one of the most valuable. The translation 
is F. Praeger's, and the History has benefitted 
greatly by the editorial supervision of the late 
baronet. Not only does it embrace the whole 
field of the civilized and semi-civilized world, 
but the abundant illustrations include fac 
similes of ancient musical MSS. It appeals 
to a circle far wider than that usually indicated 
by the term " musical " : it is of universal 
interest. 



From the St. James's Gazette. 

A SPIRITED MUSICIAN. 

An Oxford contemporary of the late Sir 
F. Gore Ouseley sends us a characteristic 
reminiscence " to correct the impression con- 
veyed by all obituary notices I have seen that 
my old friend was nothing but an amiable, 
inoffensive musician." When Ouseley was a 
gentleman commoner at Christ Church, some 
of his fellow-commoners took it ill that he 
should choose his friends among the literary 
and studious men — like Rich, Hampden, and 
Liddon — rather than among his own set, men 
who hunted or ratted, or, at least, gambled. 
So a Vehmgkricht sat on him and decreed 
that he should be screwed up. Somehow 
Ouseley got wind of their intentions, and took 



42 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



measures accordingly. He laid in a stock of 
cayenne pepper and some fetid chemical 
(probably it was assafcetida) and bored some 
holes in his oak. No sooner had the enemy 
commenced operations than they found them- 
selves half suffocated with clouds of pepper 
emitted through a hot blower, and then be- 
squirted with the foul liquid. Having forced 
them to beat a retreat into the opposite rooms, 
he promptly screwed them up by means of 
the engines they had prepared against himself. 
The assailants capitulated; and thenceforth 
Ouseley lived on friendly terms with the 
" fast " set, though he was never intimate with 
them. 



To the Editor of the Musical Standard. 

Sir, — Sir Herbert Oakeley, in a letter to 
you, writes as follows : — " It will naturally 
occur to many of Sir Frederick Gore Ouse- 
ley's admirers that by his foundation of St. 
Michael's College, Tenbury, to which he 
gave his heart and fortune, he has himself 
raised a noble monument (which), it is 
earnestly to be hoped, will be permanent, of 
the unselfishness and charity which were his 
characteristics." Sir Herbert then proposes 
the foundation of a scholarship at Oxford in 
Sir Frederick's memory. As one of the 
trustees of St. Michael's College, I think it 
right to state, for the information of the 
Church at large, that during his lifetime Sir 
Frederick devoted an annual sum of ,£2,000 
towards the maintenance of the College in 
accordance with its statutes, and that this 
yearly amount is still necessary to carry on 
the College on the same lines as heretofore. 
I regret to say that the sum at the disposal of 
the trustees for the future will not at the 
utmost amount to more than £900 per 
annum, and I would venture to suggest that 
the best memorial would be the formation of 
a fund to make up the difference in income, 
and to enable the trustees to carry on the 
College in accordance with the wishes of its 
founder, and to increase its usefulness. Sir 
F. Gore Ouseley devoted at least £35,000 
towards the building of the Church and 
College of St. Michael, and the furnishing of 
the latter ; and during the 3 2 years the College 
has been open, he has expended no less a 
sum than £64,000 towards its maintenance. 



Even these large sums would not have been 
sufficient to carry out his object if he had not 
at different times received great assistance 
from a lady whose interest in the success of 
the College is well known. Surely acts of 
such munificence, having for their object the 
glory of God and the efficient rendering of 
the services of his sanctuary, call for some 
special recognition at the hands of Church- 
men throughout the nation. 

Yours truly, 

WILLIAM NORRIS. 
Tenbury, April 27. 



Sir, — The admirably written notice by Mr. 
T. L. Southgate, relating to the late Professor 
of Music in Oxford University, will, I am 
assured, be read with great interest, more 
especially by those who had the honour 
of his acquaintance — for it was indeed an 
honour to be with such a thorough gentleman 
— one who would scorn any mean or despic- 
able action, which I fear cannot be said of all 
in the musical profession even of to-day. In- 
deed, England has lost one of her greatest 
musicians. Who but a truly great man could 
write such anthems of "It came even to pass," 
and " Great is the Lord?" And who but an 
exceptionally gifted musician could play the 
whole of the " Messiah " from memory? 

It would be superfluous for me to refer at 
length to the personal worth of such a distin- 
guished man. He seemed to be an universal 
favourite; his genial disposition, courteous 
manner, forgetfulness of self, and uprightness 
of life, were proverbial, and many will lose in 
him a kind friend and adviser, and "those 
who knew him best will mourn his loss the 
most." 

In concluding, permit me to express a hope 
that ere long, something perpetual may be 
established in the form of an Ouseley Scholar- 
ship, to commemorate the revered name of 
Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, Bart. 

Yours faithfully, 

C. E. JULEFF. 

Org. and Ch. Dir. St. Stephens, Guernsey 

Late Org. and Ch. Dir. SS. Michael and All 
Angels', Exeter. 



SIR FREDERICK USE LEY. 



43 



Sir F. Gore Ouseley, who died last week, 
was not only a clergyman, but a composer of 
the solid school. He wrote two oratorios, 
"St. Polycarp," and " Hagar," as well as string 
quartets, glees, part-songs, etc. He had 
neither the imagination nor the versatility 
required by a "composer at large," and it 
says much for his true introspection that he 
mainly did the sort of work of which he was 
most capable. Sir Frederick was Oxford 
Professor of Music for thirty-four years, in 
that capacity and during that period exercising 
a beneficial influence upon art at the Univer- 
sity. Strongly conservative, he believed in 
patient study of the principles and practice of 
the great masters, confident that thus only 
can a musician be well grounded. His death 
will probably bring into the market one of 
the finest musical libraries this country can 
boast. 



THE LATE REV. SIR F. A. G. OUSE- 
LEY, BART. 
To the Editor of the Musical Times. 

Sir, — May I ask for the insertion of this 
letter as a rider to your remarks upon Sir 
Herbert Oakeley's letter in last month's issue ? 

By the death of Sir Frederick Ouseley, the 
annual income of the College, to which he 
devoted his life and fortune, has been so 
seriously reduced as to render it impossible to 
carry on the work according to his plans un- 
less additional funds are provided from other 
sources. 

Sir Frederick Ouseley devoted at least 
^3S,ooo to the building of the Church and 
College of St. Michael and All Angels, near 
Tenbury, and during the thirty-two years the 
College has been open, he expended no less 
a sum than ^64,000 on its maintenance, or 
an annual sum of ^2,000. 

The yearly sum at the disposal of the 
Trustees of the College for the future will 
not, in all probability, exceed ;£ooo, leaving 
an annual deficiency of about ^1,100. 

It is felt by those who knew Sir Frederick 
Ouseley best that the creation of an additional 
endowment sufficient to produce this annual 
sum of ;£i,ioo, would form the most fitting 
memorial of such a man and such a work. 
The scheme, which has been in successful 
■operation since 1856, comprises a high-class 



education for the sons of clergy and gentlemen 
of moderate means, together with the main- 
tenance of a daily choral service of the highest 
devotional type. There are thus eight boys 
who receive an entirely gratuitous education, 
and eight more who, as Probationers, receive 
the same education at an almost nominal 
cost. 

Many former pupils of St. Michael's are 
now filling prominent positions in the Church, 
in the naval, military, musical, and other 
professions 

It is believed that not only Sir Frederick 
Ouseley's many personal friends, but all 
supporters of Church education and lovers of 
Cathedral Music will gladly avail themselves 
of this opportunity to contribute liberally to 
secure the permanence of this work which he 
had so much at heart, and promoted with a 
self-sacrifice which has few parallels. 

Subscriptions may be sent to the Rev. J. 
Hampton, the Warden, or to W. Norris, Esq., 
the Bursar of St. Michael's College, Tenbury ; 
or to the following banks : — Messrs. Hemes, 
Farquhar, & Co., St. James's Street, London, 
S.W., and Lloyd's Bank, Tenbury. 

Yours truly, 

B. 

FROM A FRIEND. 

It was through Sir Frederick Ouseley that 
the office of Choragus in the University of 
Oxford became more of a reality than had 
once been the case ; but it was not, as has 
been stated, Dr. C. W: Corfe who succeeded 
to it on Sir F. Ouseley's appointment to the 
Professorship. It was separated from the 
Professorship on the death of Dr. Crotch in 
1848, and when Sir H. R. Bishop succeeded 
him as Professor in that year, Dr. Stephen 
Elvey, of New College, succeeded him as 
Choragus, and held the office till his death in 
i860, when he was succeeded in it by Dr. 
C. W. Corfe, then C°ryphceus (or Precentor), 
and he, in that post, by Dr. Haynes, of 
Queen's College. 

It has been mentioned that Sir F. Ouseley 
received his early education from a private 
tutor. It is only just that it should be known 
that this tutor was the late Rev. James Joyce, 
vicar of Dorking, of whom he always spoke 
with the greatest regard and affection. It 
was here that he became acquainted with his 



44 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



late near neighbour and most intimate and 
attached friend, the late Rev. James Wayland 
Joyce, rector of Burford, near Tenbury, who 
was his father's curate when Sir Frederick was 
his pupil, and to whom he always said he felt 
that he owed scarcely less than to his father 
for the influence which the intercourse of 
those few years exercised on the whole of his 
life. After the appointment of the Rev. J. W. 
Joyce to the rectory of Burford, Sir Frederick 
became a pupil of his ; and it was this con- 
nection with Burford which resulted in St. 
Michael's Church and College being built 
where they are. Mr. Joyce prepared him for 
Oxford ; and, it .is almost needless to add, 
they remained life-long friends. The death 
of Mr. Wayland Joyce certainly left the blank 
in Sir Frederick's life which his death has left 
in my life — and in the life of how many more ? 

He was the most unselfish of men. Of this 
trait in his character his known self-sacrifice 
is a standing monument, and the existence of 
St. Michael's Church and College are its 
greatest and most eloquent, yet silent, testi- 
mony. 

He was most gentle and unaggressive; but 
when occasion required it he knew how to 
hold his own, and even to pay with interest 
that which he felt was unprovoked and un- 
deserved, and whereas many men, while 
admitting that the Nemesis which came on 
them was no more than their due, would, 
nevertheless, maintain a grudge, Sir Frederick, 
on such occasions, always made friends 
instead of enemies. There were those among 
his Christ Church contemporaries, who 
rather resented the fact that a gentleman 
commoner should choose his friends from the 
literary and studious, such as Rich, Hampden, 
Liddon, and other of the students, than those 
whose tastes were rather of the " ratting " and 
sporting order. Some of the aggrieved deter- 
mined to " screw him up." Somehow he 
heard of this intention. He laid in a supply 
of cayenne pepper and some odiously-scented 
fluid — I think it was a preparation of 
asafoetida ; by means of some holes which he 
prepared in his "oak" he first poured out 
through a heated " blower," clouds of hot 
cayenne pepper which half suffocated them ; 
and he then so saturated their clothes with 
the fluid he had prepared, with syringes, 
which he and a friend plied on them, that at 



last they beat a retreat into the opposite room, 
when he and his faithful ally emerged, and in 
a few minutes effectually made them prisoners 
by screwing them up with the very screws and 
other implements of which they had intended 
to give him the benefit. The assailants came 
and apologised, and Ouseley became their 
friend ; for he could not be unkind to any 
one, and, without intimacy, he could be 
friendly with those whose tastes were very 
different to his own. 

Sir Frederick was a sound and well-read 
classical scholar ; but it was to mathematics 
that he had principally applied himself as an 
undergraduate, and he was much attached 
to the mathematical tutor of Christ Church, 
Mr. Hill (who is still living), though he, in 
common with other Christ Church men, 
used to enjoy "drawing" him of his one 
joke at breakfast on " the bees as the source 
of the honey." But for the death of his 
father and his own illness at a critical time, 
he must have secured the mathematical first 
class, for which he was considered "safe." 
Especially, however, was he a well-read 
theologian, and the large collection of 
theological books in the College Library, to 
which he was constantly adding, was not 
brought together merely for show. One 
who had a right to know said to me, not 
long since, "Ouseley is the man to spot 
heresies. I pity the man who brings out a 
questionable phrase in his sermon, if he is in 
the Cathedral." Happily such men are 
scarce in the Diocese of Hereford. 

Another strong point in his character was 
not only sterling honesty, and his utter 
detestation of imposture. On one or two 
occasions his genuine kindness of heart had 
led him to lend his name to schemes of 
which, when he knew more of them, he 
could not altogether approve. Of one he 
said "The objects are good." But with 
regard to the other he took very decided 
action. 

It has been mentioned that Sir Frederick 
was habitually kind to the boys and mem- 
bers of the choir of Hereford Cathedral. 
An old friend, who owed much to him, said 
of him, with truth, in a notice of him in one 
of the " Society papers " that he had been 
the personal friend of every Minor Canon, 
Lay Clerk, and Chorister in England, and 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



45 



certainly those of their connection never had 
such a friend as they possessed in Sir 
Frederick Ouseley, who is now resting from 
his labours and has entered into his reward. 

N. M. L. 



Anecdote of F. A. G. O. and Dean 
Gaisford. 

Ouseley once on the last day of a vacation 
was at Swindon Station, when, through some 
mistake, the last train for Oxford had de- 
parted. Knowing he could not keep Term 
unless in Christ Church before mid-night, he 
spent £25 on a special train and just saved 
it Next day he called on Gaisford to explain 
unusually late hour, and told him what he had 
done to save the Term. The Dean said, in 
his dry way, nothing but : " You did wisely, 
Sir." 



From the Church Times, May 17. 

ST. MICHAEL'S, TENBURY. 

Founded by the late Sir F. A. G. Ousei.ey. 

There side by side the Church and College stand, 

A noble work, to God's own glory raised ; 
Here daily, by the clear-voiced, white-robed band, 
• Is the most holy Name in chorus praised. 
Here heavenly music spreads her wings o'er all, 

And sanctifies the drudgery of life, 
Restraining with a sweet ennobling thrall 

Young ardent spirits — arming for the strife 
Of after life, by storing memory 

With holy words, for ever fixed there 
By the strong power of sacred harmony. 

Here lingers still the Founder's selfless prayer, 
That Heaven, amid these walls, young souls might 
bless, * 

And lead in paths of peace and holiness. 

Terra Cotta. 



in memoriam. 

The Rev. Sir Frederick Arthur Gore Ouseley, Bart., 

Mus. Doc. 

Gone ! ere we could again have grasped thy hand, 

Gone ! and no words of parting have been said, 
Gone to that Land so near, that silent Land ! 

Gone by the path we all shall have to tread ! 
Ah, why so soon, so suddenly removed 

From friends and noble Art and work for God ! 
How much of that great Art which thou hast loved 

Lies buried with thee neath the daisied sod ! 
Nay, say not go ! God's servants serve Him still 

In better ways than we could e'er devise ; 
And who shall say what angel voices thrill, 

What harmonies are heard in Paradise ? 

William Wood, D.D. 
Cropredy Vicarage. 



Ipulplt intterancee. 



Reference to Sir F. A. G. Ouseley's sudden 
death was made in Hereford Cathedral, the 
Churches, and other places of worship, on 
Sunday, the 7th of April. The Rev. R. M. 
White, Vicar of Churchstoke and Prebendary 
of Huntington, whose turn it was to preach 
in the Cathedral, selected for his text St. 
John viii. 46 — 47. At the close of his 
discourse he said : — " I feel it to be my sad 
and painful duty to add these few words. 
The Chapter of this Cathedral has been, by 
the will of Almighty God, suddenly deprived 
by the hand of death of one who has been 
the specially gifted Precentor for thirty-four 
years of this Cathedral — a man who was not 
only a bright ornament and an efficient 
member of this Capitular establishment, but 
also much beloved by his brethren here, and 
by all those associated with him in his 
College of St. Michael's and its neighbour- 
hood, and I may say by all to whom he was 
known, for his unassuming manner, for his 
open heart, for his kindly spirit, which was 
'gentle unto all men.' I would leave it to 
others, more fit from their position, and more 
capable from intimate acquaintance, to speak 
of the example of his consistent conduct, of 
his earnest Christian life, of his purity of 
motive, and the offering of a life's labours 
unalloyed by , selfish considerations ; and I 
may truly say, his self-sacrificing devotion of 
all his worldly substance. It was his aim to 
further the highest interests of his much- 
beloved Church, of which he was so reverent 
and dutiful a son, by helping to provide the 
excellency of well-trained choirs in the 
conduct of her services. That we sorrow 
not as men without hope, we are assured 
that ' the righteous are taken away from the 
evil to come.' We therefore know not what 
amount of prolonged suffering those who fall 
asleep in Christ are spared. ' The souls of 
the righteous are in the hand of God, and no 
torment shall touch them.' It is for us to 
hear the great voice from heaven, so unmis- 
takably reminding us that ' in the midst of 
life we are in death,' and for each to take 
home to his own heart and conscience the 
warning that our friend and brother has been 
suddenly removed. The Lord may come to 



46 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



call us hence at an unlooked-for moment, 
therefore let us so live unto Him with our 
loins girded and our lamps burning that we 
may be prepared for His coming, each in his 
several station remembering the strict and 
solemn account he will have to render at the 
judgment seat of Christ." 



On Sunday morning, April 14th, at Here- 
ford Cathedral, Canon Musgrave prefaced 
his sermon by paying a tribute to the 
memory of the late Canon Sir F. A. Gore 
Ouseley. He said : Before beginning my 
sermon, I crave permission to say a few 
words, in addition to those which have been 
so fitly spoken by others, upon the almost 
irreparable loss which the Church at large, 
and our own Cathedral, body in particular, 
have sustained by the death of our late 
Precentor and Canon Residentiary. I do 
not either intend or wish to preach a funeral 
sermon, nor to pronounce a laboured funeral 
oration or panegyric over, as it were, the 
grave of our departed brother. For either 
the one or the other, this beginning of our 
Holy Week would scarcely be a fitting occa- 
sion, when subjects of such solemn import as 
the Passion and Death of our dear Lord and 
Saviour Jesus Christ are claiming our special 
contemplation. Inasmuch, however, as it 
was my privilege to assist at the inauguration 
of our lamented brother as Precentor in 
1855, and that for the 34 years which have 
since elapsed an unbroken and unclouded 
friendship has subsisted between us, I cannot 
stand up in this pulpit, on this the first 
Sunday after the consignment of his honoured 
remains to their last earthly resting place, 
without some reference to one who was such 
a kind and loving friend, as well as a bright 
ornament and distinguished member of our 
Cathedral body. One of our preachers here 
last Sunday pointed to the awful suddenness 
of our brother's last summons, as a fresh 
instance, among innumerable others of 
almost daily occurrence, of the uncertainty 
and transitoriness of human life, verifying 
that trite but most true saying, " In the midst 
of life we are in death," and as a quickening 
call to each one of us, in the language of one 
of the beautiful prayers in the office for the 
visitation of the sick, " by such like spectacles 
of mortality to see how frail and uncertain 



our condition is, and so to number our days, 
that we may seriously apply our hearts to 
that holy and heavenly wisdom whilst we 
live here which may in the end bring us to 
life everlasting, through the merits of Jesus 
Christ our Lord." The other preacher spoke 
most justly of our late Precentor's disin- 
terested and self-sacrificing spirit — how he 
had devoted his whole life and his entire 
worldly substance to the foundation and 
maintenance of an institution which he 
believed might be made subservient to the 
glory of God and the benefit of His Church, 
by fostering the musical element in the 
public worship of the sanctuary. Our 
departed friend was entitled, by his birth 
and education and mental culture, to a high 
social position. He might have been 
courted and fifed by the rich and the great, 
and have spent his days in much worldly 
ease and comfort ; whereas he chose the 
better and more honourable part of living a 
life of comparative obscurity, of frugality and 
plainness, of the fewest personal wants, 
becoming himself poor, that, like his Divine 
Master, he might make others rich in attrac- 
tive qualifications for the ministry of God's 
House. His very musical attainments, of 
such pre-eminent excellence and developed 
at an inconceivably early age, were dedicated 
almost exclusively to pious uses and to 
furthering the beauty, dignity, and devotion 
of sacred song. Numerous as are his 
musical compositions, search them through, 
and you will not find a single passage of a 
mean and worldly type, or pandering to 
mere sensuous emotions — one unworthy the 
production of a consecrated priest of God. 
But I would now speak, though it must be 
briefly, of our dear friend, not as a most 
accomplished musician, not as a sound 
divine and acceptable preacher, not as a 
scholar of much and varied information, not 
even as a true and dutiful son of the Church, 
but of the singular beauty of his unique 
personality. 1. One of its most prominent 
features was his entire simplicity, in its best 
sense, not Solomon's simplicity of fools. 
His mind and heart were as transparent as 
crystal. One felt perfectly safe, in all he 
might say or suggest, that there was nothing 
kept back, nothing behind, no ulterior 
design, that he said what he meant and 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



47 



meant what he said. There was about him 
the guilelessness of a dear innocent child. 
Is this no praise? Is it not of the very 
essence of Christianity to " become as little 
children " ? 2. United with this, and almost 
naturally flowing from it, was his real 
humility. He was free from every particle 
of affectation or self-assumption. When 
asked to favour his friends, or even strangers, 
with some display of his musical ability, he 
would comply simply, and at once, from his 
natural courtesy, and because he recognised 
the talent he possessed as a gift of God, 
which was neither to be abused nor hidden 
under a napkin. 3. One more trait I must 
notice. Our departed brother was what I 
will venture to term an eminently gracious 
man, overflowing with kindness, and Shake- 
speare tells us — " There are no faces truer 
than those which are so washed. 1 ' He was 
kind, gentle, unassuming, to all alike, rich 
and poor, young and old. His school-boys 
idolized him, his servants almost worshipped 
him, his friends loved him, mere acquaint- 
ances venerated him, and I do not suppose 
he ever made an enemy in his life. But I 
must stop. Much more, did time permit, 
might I say respecting our deeply lamented 
friend and brother. But I need not. Most 
of' you, my brethren and sisters in Christ, 
knew well his blameless life, his cheerful 
converse, his genial companionship, his 
liberality, even beyond his means, his 
thoughtful consideration for, and ready 
sympathy with, the sad, and sorrowful, and 
afflicted, his tenderness of heart and integrity 
of purpose ; above all, his earnest consistent 
Christian walk and conversation. All this is 
now lost to us, except in the way of remem- 
brance and example. His sudden decease, 
for which he was not altogether unprepared, 
but rather expected, is but a fulfilment of the 
text, on which the preacher on the Sunday 
evening preceding his death descanted, 
" One is taken and another is left." He 
has been taken to his Eternal rest, and we, 
his elder brethren, are left hehind for a little 
longer — how long who can say ? — to struggle 
with the trials, temptations, and conflicts of 
this mortal life, until we also go hence and 
be no more sojourners upon earth. " O 
Lord God most Holy, O Lord most Mighty, 
O Holy and most merciful Saviour, deliver 



us not into the bitter pains of Eternal 
death ! " 



In the evening the service was also 
unusually solemn. Dr. Colborne again pre- 
sided at the organ, and at the opening of 
the service, as the surpliced clergy and choir 
entered the chancel, he played Chopin's 
"Funeral March" with all its doleful solemnity. 
The service was Palestrini in F; the 37th 
Psalm was . chanted without the organ 
accompaniment; at the interval before the 
first lesson Dr. Colbourne played Mendel- 
ssohn's "Funeral March." Goss's beautiful 
anthem — " If we believe that Jesus died and 
rose again " was substituted for the one origin- 
ally appointed. The hymn " O Sacred Head 
once wounded " (iii. A & M), was sung before 
the Benediction to the tune of Bach's Passion 
Choral, and at the close the " Dead March in 
Saul " was magnificently played, the Cathedral 
being completely filled, a large number of 
people having come in to hear the March 
played after leaving other places of worship. 

Canon S. Lidderdale Smith was the 
preacher, and took as his text the words: "So 
teach us to number our days, that we may 
apply our hearts unto wisdom " (90th Psalm, 
v. 12). The preacher, having expounded the 
meaning of the previous verses, pointed out 
as he did so that this Psalm was said to be 
one of the most sublime of all human com- 
positions, its authorship being generally 
attributed to Moses. "Except the Lord 
build the house, their labour is but lost that 
built it ; except the Lord keep the city the 
watchman waketh but in vain," and except, 
brethren, the Lord becomes his teacher, man 
learns life's lessons but in vain. God is 
everlasting and holy, man transitory and sin- 
ful, and man must go to the Eternal One to 
learn how frail he is, and to the Holy One to 
learn how unholy he is. We hear of persons 
dying around us in all sorts of ways. One 
could hardly take up a newspaper without 
reading of the death of someone he knew or 
had heard tell of, but they were only too apt 
not to take the warning home. It was so 
hard to persuade a man who was in good 
health and spirits that he was really walking 
along the very brink of the grave. He could 
not but feel that his sermon was in accord 
with the feelings of many of those to whom 



4§ 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



he was speaking that evening. They had 
had a great shock, a sudden, most sudden 
shock. 

How oft in mercy, not in wrath, 
God calls His sons away ! 

That sudden passing away of one so long 
known and so highly valued amongst them — 
one of themselves ; one who had been wor- 
shipping with them until Saturday in that 
House of God which he loved so well ; and 
who, but for that sudden call within the veil 
would have been partaking with them that 
(Sunday) morning of the blessed Communion 
of the body and blood of Christ. The in- 
stantaneous removal of one so distinguished, 
so honoured, so kind, and loved by all who 
knew him, could not but have impressed 
them deeply.' They seemed to see him still, 
to.hear his voice. Oh, he had but passed, so 
slight was the partition, into the next room. 
He whose skill in sacred music was so great, 
and whose love of it had been a life-long 
passion, and who had devoted himself and all 
he had to the cultivation of it ! Could they 
doubt that angels would be his teachers now, 
and that, amidst angelic choirs, that which 
he loved on earth would be perfected in 
heaven. But he could not say more that 
evening. The blow was heavy, the loss 
great, and beyond his words to express. Let 
the lesson of the text sink all the deeper for 
it into their hearts, that they might work 
while it was day — "for the night cometh 
when no man can work." 



The Bishop of Hereford, in his address to 
the congregation at the conclusion of the 
confirmation service on Sunday afternoon in 
St. Peter's Church, Hereford, exhorted them 
to cultivate the means of grace. He assured 
them it would strengthen them in the 
sorrows and trials of life, as well as in those 
which came unexpectedly, such as sudden 
deaths. They had an instance of that on 
the previous day. He meant the death of 
Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley, who had died 
so suddenly. His lordship made this refer- 
ence to the sad event with evident emotion. 



Canon Body, D.D., preaching at St. Paul's, 
Knightsbridge, where Sir Frederick was 
formerly curate, on Sunday evening, made a 
touching allusion to the mournful event. 



He remarked that the whole musical world 
had sustained a great loss, for Sir Frederick 
Ouseley was no ordinary man. 

Canon Ince, Regius Professor of Divinity, 
in concluding his sermon at the Cathedral 
Christ Church, on Palm Sunday morning, 
made the following reference to the death of 
Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley : — 

"I am unwilling to leave the pulpit this 
morning without some words of reference 
to a loss just sustained, which must awaken 
peculiar memories and profound regrets in 
Oxford, and more especially in Christ 
Church. Death, startling in its suddenness, 
has removed from earth Sir Frederick 
Ouseley, our eminent and highly-valued 
Professor of Music. A born musician, if 
any man ever was, as the interesting anec- 
dotes of his infancy and early childhood 
which have been repeated in obituary notices 
testify, he has devoted the whole of his life 
to the cultivation of his noble gift, especially 
in the service of religion. Another career 
might doubtless have been open to one 
whose godfathers were a Prince of the 
Blood and the great Duke of Wellington; 
he chose for himself the less ambitious 
ministry of the Church of God, and the 
special direction which his untiring and 
unselfish energy chose herein was the study 
and promotion by education of church 
music. I am old enough to remember his 
form, and figure, and signal reputation when, 
as an undergraduate of this House, he 
already gave promise of his brilliant skill, 
alike in the practical and theoretical depart- 
ments of music. It is known to all how, 
not very long after his ordination, he 
devoted his whole fortune and his whole 
time to the erection and maintenance of a 
church and a college, in which sacred music 
should be thoroughly and scientifically 
taught, and find practical expression in 
finished choral services. What he did to 
raise the standard of qualifications for the 
musical degrees in the University, this is 
not the place and I am not the judge to 
declare. How largely Sir F. Ouseley has 
increased the store of song for church use 
may be illustrated from the fact that in the 
new anthem books which we use here there 
are more than sixty anthems of which he is 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



49 



the author. Familiar as household words 
are some of those sung here, and in many a 
cathedral and parish church such as "From 
the rising of the sun unto the going down 
of the same, Thy name shall be great," and 
" How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob ! " 
I am tempted to quote some words from a 
notice appearing yesterday in a weekly 
periodical, written by one of his intimate 
friends. " It is as a man that the Professor 
will be the most mourned. His personal 
character was singularly pure, amiable, and 
unselfish. In St. Michael's College, Tenbury, 
perhaps one of the least accessible places in 
England, he buried himself, devoting himself 
to the management of the college, anxious 
only to do real good there, and careless of 
the fame and reputation which might easily 
have been his, had he chosen to seek for 
them. He was idolised by all who were 
associated with him in his work, and his 
place it will be impossible fully to fill. He 
often expressed the wish that if it pleased 
God he might die in harness. That prayer 
has been answered." By a singular coinci- 
dence, the poem for Palm Sunday in the 
Christian Year has a stanza which, con- 
taining a confession of the poet's own 
incapacity for music, points to the fitting 
attitude of those who, whilst they admire, 
cannot yet appreciate fully the services of 
music as the handmaid of religion : — 

Lord, by every minstrel tongue 
Be Thy praise to duty sung, 
That Thine angels' harps may ne'er 
Fail to find fit echoing here ; 
We the while of meaner birth 

Who in that divinest spell 
Dare not hope to join on earth 

Give us grace to listen well. 

Some of us, who are neither musicians like 
Ouseley nor poets like Keble, while we lay 
our tribute of feeble words on the fresh 
grave of the great master of music whose 
loss we deplore, may perhaps be allowed to 
adopt for ourselves words of the same 
master of song occurring in yet another of 
his poems : — 

In vain, with dull and tuneless ear, 

I linger by soft music's cell, 
And in my heart of hearts would hear 
What to her own she deigns to tell. 
But patience ! there may come a time 

When these dull ears shall scan aright 

Strains, that outring earth's drowsy chime, 

As Heaven outshines the taper's light. 



Though our psalms and hymns and spiritual 
songs may be as inartistic as were the 
Hosannas which, as on this day, the children 
raised in the Temple of Jerusalem to the 
King of Israel on the eve of His Passion, 
we may comfort ourselves with the poet's 
thought — 

Childlike though the voices be, 

And untunable the parts, 
God will own the minstrelsy 

If it flow from childlike hearts. 

At the conclusion of the service the 
" Dead March " in Saul was played as a 
voluntary, the congregation standing through- 
out. 



A SERMON 

Preached in St. Mary's Parish Church, Tenbury, 
on April j 4., 1889, 

BY THE REV. PREBENDARY T. AYSCODGH SMITH, 
VICAR. 

" The steps of a good man are ordered [literally, 
established] by the Lord." — Psalm xxxvii. 23. 

I am sure I shall not be deemed by any of 
you as likely to have overlooked the fact, 
of which we are so forcibly reminded in 
to-day's Gospel, that we have entered upon 
the most solemn week of the year — that 
week in which, according to our Church's 
custom, we follow step by step the progress 
of our blessed Lord from one sorrow to 
another, as He trod the road to Calvary — 
the via dolorosa — enduring all if He might 
only win for us eternal life. It is impossible 
to do that ; but still, with this fully in view, 
I hope to touch upon a different subject, 
because, do what we will, it is hardly possible 
to keep our thoughts from it, so deep are the 
emotions to which it gives rise in many 
breasts ; and so on this occasion, mindful as 
I am of the day, mindful too of my practice, 
generally speaking, to avoid what are called 
funeral sermons, I shall speak upon it. It 
has pleased God to take, suddenly, from 
amongst us one who was no ordinary man, 
who had claims upon our respect and affec- 
tionate regard which few others had ; and 
whose character was such, that whilst it 
renders him worthy of this, it had points in 
it upon which we may profitably think as 
affording useful lessons for ourselves. Upon 
three of these in Canon Sir F. Ouseley's 



5° 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



character I will dwell. They are his humi- 
lity, his charity, his single-minded devotion 
to one object which he had set before him ; 
and I shall treat them precisely as he took all 
he had — namely, as gifts and graces given to 
him by God their Author, for which he 
would one day have to give an account. 
" The steps of a good man are ordered by 
the Lord." His was a most consistent, 
guileless life ; a faith that was very firm and 
strong ; a piety most genuine and unaffected. 
Gifted in more than one respect far above 
the average of men, our friend was singularly 
humble minded.' He seemed as if hardly 
aware how much he surpassed the greater 
number of those with whom he was thrown 
in contact ; and, as happens, amidst the noise 
and self-assertion and boastfulness of our day, 
the real extent of his abilities were often over- 
looked, and only the comparatively few who 
knew him best had any idea of the extent of 
his knowledge or of the bright flame of genius 
which burnt within him. It was just the same 
in respect of his social position. The last 
survivor of a branch of an ancient family that 
had done good service for Church and 
State in more than one generation, he never 
claimed or sought any special deference on 
that or any other account, but simple minded 
and unassuming to the last degree, he en- 
deavoured to make all at ease in their 
intercourse with him. It gave a wonderful 
charm to his society. Then, there was his 
charity. I do not mean so much his capacity 
for generous giving, for which he was remark- 
able; but the unselfish, kindly way with 
which he habitually thought about and treated 
others. It was one of the principal delights 
of his life to be doing kindnesses. Whatever 
he happened to be engaged in, you might be 
sure of his instantly taking an interest in any- 
thing you had to tell him of the good fortune 
or the good deeds of any with whom he had 
the least acquaintance. It seemed an instinct 
in him to discern what was good in others, 
rather than their defects, to rejoice in their 
well-being, to be ready to make allowance for 
their faults, and to be kind in his correction 
of them, and not only to promote peace 
amongst others, but to follow out the precept 
of being at peace with all men. I myself 
knew an instance in which, through years of 
ill-will and misconstrued motives on the part 



of another, he had won his way, by sheer 
force of desire to do kind acts in requital for 
unkind ones, until the person who had 
thought hardly of him became his warm friend. 
There were times in his life when — as happens 
to any man who has' to deal with many per- 
sons, or who is raised above the ordinary level 
— his character and aims were misunderstood 
and misrepresented, and he was harshly 
judged and hardly dealt with ; and although 
his sensitive, gentle spirit suffered acutely 
from such treatment, he never nursed senti- 
ments of malice or revenge, but set to work 
with Christian purpose to forgive and, as far 
possible, to forget, and to take every oppor- 
tunity of showing that he did so. The 
consequence has been that not many men, 
who have been mixed up with public affairs, 
have left behind them so few enemies. I 
might almost say that he had none when the 
call to leave this scene of his earthly labour 
came to him ; and that when his gentle spirit 
was called to its rest, he could most truly 
commend it to his Maker as being at peace 
with God and with his neighbour also. Then, 
there is the most marked feature of his life ; 
the self-sacrifice with which he carried out his 
plan of building and supporting the Church 
and College of St. Michael's. A most de- 
voted and loyal member of the Church of 
England, he formed the impression, when 
still a youth, and at a time when not many 
would have got beyond the idea of taking the 
pleasures and enjoyments of life as they came, 
that the skill which had been given him in the 
art of music might best be made promotive 
of the glory of God by raising an institution 
that should provide training in music, and 
give encouragement to its study, as well as 
provide illustration of what he conceived to 
be its best and fullest development as applied 
to the worship of the Church. This, which 
thenceforward became the ruling idea of his 
life, he followed up with an energy, a 
persistency, and self-sacrifice that stamps his 
character as one of truest nobleness, and 
which has done no little to remove from the 
England of this time the imputation that 
amongst her sons she has few capable of 
showing chivalrous devotion to such cause as 
they may have at heart, or of rising above 
common-place inferior motives and aims. We 
Tenbury people, perhaps, hardly realize what 



SIR FREDERICK USE LEY. 



Si 



it is to have seen, in our midst, that instance 
of rare self-sacrifice by which this good man 
devoted unusual gifts and the whole of his 
ample means to this single purpose. We 
knew his many good qualities, the personal 
attraction of his genial kindly manner, so 
happy in promoting the happiness of others, 
we might recognize in him the skill in his 
favourite art, which made his name famous 
up and down our land ; but I do not think 
that any of us quite took in all that was in- 
volved in the rearing and the maintenance of 
the College of S. Michael and All Angels in 
his early manhood, and doing this all through 
the rest of his life; and the reason of it partly 
was that being quiet, unassuming, and un- 
affected, humble-minded beyond most men, 
he never sought to draw attention to it, or to 
claim for it any special notice. There was, 
indeed, much in it which did not meet the 
eye. It was a noble act to devote all he 
possessed to an object, which could only bring 
its present reward in quite a secondary way ; 
but it was nobler still to follow up what he had 
begun, through many and great difficulties, 
and to do this not for a year or two, but for 
five and thirty years, and to do it not as if he 
had sacrificed anything, but cheerfully and as 
a matter of course to give up and deny himself 
in many things to which his rank and station 
had accustomed him. It seemed as nothing 
to him that his attainments, other than those 
of music, fitted him to shine and to gain 
reputation in other spheres than his quiet 
home amongst us (for he was an accomplished 
scholar and linguist). The carrying on of 
S. Michael's College was the work which, as 
a devoted son of the Church, he had set him- 
self to do for God, and to that work he bent 
all his powers, on it he expended without 
stint that which God had given him. To such 
a life the nation owes a great deal, if only for 
the example it has given of a noble act nobly 
done ; but who shall say for how much the 
Church is indebted, and may yet owe, to the 
particular form which his self-devotion took. 
There is room for difference of opinion as to 
the quantity and kind of music with which 
our Church services, under ordinary circum- 
stances, may be fitly accompanied ; but there 
can be none, amongst Churchmen worthy of 
the name, as to whether we ought not to give 
the best we can in what we attempt in that 



respect ; and here it is that the example of 
our dear departed brother shines as a beacon 
light, amongst the too-often sordid imperfect- 
ness of our offerings. * * * * Here 
was one who, in order that the music of the 
Church might be improved, expended a large 
fortune and denied himself many things for 
over five and thirty years. Let us take it to 
heart. We cannot emulate that height of 
rendering to which his exquisite sense of the 
harmony of musical sounds led him to aspire ; 
but this we can do, we can call to mind that 
music is a gift of God — itself almost divine in 
some of its developments — and that such of 
it as we use in the service of the Church 
should be as good as we can make it, and 
that tq_make it worthy we must not grudge the 
expenditure of time and pains, without which 
the offering is worthless. Let us thank God 
that we have the example of such a life. To 
our brother death came, we may be assured, 
as something for which in faith and humble- 
ness of mind he had been long preparing ; 
and grieve, as we must, over the loss which 
we and others have suffered, we may yet re- 
joice in the thought that he has indeed been 
taken to his rest. There in the Paradise of 
God he awaits the day when, with the just 
made perfect in Christ, with Angel and Arch- 
angel and all the company of Heaven, he will 
unite in singing those heavenly praises which 
the production of his genius here had always 
in view, and in which he will find the purest 
and the fullest delight. Truly does the hymn, 

"Jerusalem on high 
My song and city is, 
My home when'er I die, 
The centre of my bliss," 

of which we have his beautiful setting in his- 
own oratorio of Hagar, give the keynote to 
this good man's life — a life, if ever there was 
one, " ordered of the Lord." 



52 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



Congress & Hcaoemp papers. 



Sir Gore Ouseley was one of the chief 
founders of the Royal Academy of Music. 
This national school of music was established 
in 1822, at a meeting of noblemen and 
gentlemen held at the Old Thatched House 
Tavern, London ; a charter was granted, and 
the King became patron. The musical 
abilities and influential social position of Sir 
Gore Ouseley were so well recognised that 
he was placed on the sub-committee, and 
seems to have rendered substantial service 
in planning and guiding the institution. On 
his death, Sir Frederick took his father's 
place as one of the Directors, and after- 
wards was made a Vice-President. He always 
had a great regard for the Academy, but 
owing to not living in London, he was rarely 
able to attend the meetings of the com- 
mittee. The late John Ella, founder of the 
Musical Union, who was one of the early 
professors at the Royal Academy, used 
to recount a reminiscence of the boy 
making his first appearance there. His 
singular gifts were known and so much 
talked about in musical circles, that Dr. 
Crotch, the Principal of the institution, 
asked Sir Gore to bring his son, so that 
they could hear him play. The boy was 
accordingly taken to Tenterden Street, and 
placed at a piano, surrounded by a circle of 
professors and students. He played a piece 
of Hummel's and one of Beethoven's 
sonatas so accurately, and with so much 
effect, that the critical audience were warm 
in the praise of his talent and skill. Dr. 
Crotch then gave the lad a subject to 
extemporise upon ; this he treated most 
ingeniously, and quite astonished the critics 
with the fugue he finished off with. 

Many years after this occurrence Sir 
Frederick Ouseley became one of the Com- 
mittee of the Musical Union. This institu- 
tion, which Ella directed with so much skill 
and success for forty years, gave concerts of 
string music by the great masters, played to 
perfection by the best artists of the day. 
Indeed, these famous concerts paved the 
way for the still more famous Monday 
Populars, educating the people to appreciate 



classic music in one of its most enjoyable 
forms. The venerable Professor Ella was 
an autocrat ; he had a nominal committee of 
titled persons, but he was practically the 
institution, and assumed the entire manage- 
ment. However, he paid some deference to 
the opinions of Ouseley, and frequently 
listened to his advice in the arrangement of 
the eclectic programmes, and the engage- 
ment of the performers. 



In 1874 was founded in London " The 
Musical Association," a society having for 
its aim the Investigation and Discussion of 
subjects connected with the Art, Science and 
History of Music. The members consist 
of practical and theoretical musicians, as 
well as those whose researches have been 
directed to the science of acoustics, the 
history of the art, the construction of instru- 
ments, or other kindred subjects. Meetings 
are held monthly, at which papers are read, 
with any necessary performances or illus- 
trative experiments, and a discussion follows. 
Most of our representative musicians and 
acousticians belong to the Association, and 
the annual volumes of "Proceedings" that 
are published shew how valuable and useful 
is the work done by the society. Its 
founders felt that it was ' necessary to have 
as President some prominent man who 
represented all branches of the art, whose 
sympathies were wide, whose knowledge was 
exact, and whose general culture and quali- 
fications undoubtedly fitted him to preside 
over the meetings of a learned society of 
this nature. Sir Frederick Gore Ouseley 
was unanimously elected to the post of 
President, and right well he performed his 
duties. Distance from London prevented 
him from attending all the meetings of the 
Association, but when he was in town, he 
was usually to be found there, and he did 
good service in occasionally reading papers. 
These were replete with original research, 
information, thought and practical sugges- 
tions of much value ; the intimation that the 
President was going to speak always drew 
together a large assembly of the members 
and their friends. Of the papers he fur- 
nished, the following were the most important : 



SIR FREDERICK USE LEY. 



53 



— " Considerations on the History of Eccle- 
siastical Music of Western Europe," read 
January 3rd, 1876; "On the early Italian 
and Spanish Treatises on Counterpoint and 
Harmony," read March 3rd, 1879 ; " On 
some Italian and Spanish Treatises on Music 
of the Seventeenth Century," read February 
6th, 1882 ; and " On the Position of Organs 
in Churches," read February 1st, 1886. In 
the first of these papers, Ouseley traced the 
connection between Christian Church music 
.and that of the ancients, Pagan and Israelite. 
He examined the theory of Padre Martini, 
the illustrious author of the great Italian 
" History of Music," and shewed that his 
contention as to the Ambrosian chants being 
traditionally derived from the very notes 
composed and sung to the Psalms by David 
and others was impossible. Sir Frederick 
maintained that the ancient Hebrew music 
must have been essentially Oriental in its 
character, and that Eastern music, like the 
customs of these people, is not likely to have 
altered. The scale-system — i.e., the division 
of the octave into notes — of both the 
brothers Isaac and Ishmael must have been 
identical. Now the Arab and Egyptian 
music is altogether^ different in its melodic 
intervals to that of our modern Western 
music : our untrained ears cannot appreciate 
their thirds and quarter tones, any more than 
these Eastern people can understand our 
music. The melodies therefore sung by the 
Jews of old could not have borne the 
slightest resemblance to the intervals of 
the chants sung by the ancient Western 
Church, founded as these were on the Greek 
system of tones and semitones. Sir Frederick 
shewed that the Ambrosian and Gregorian 
melodies were distinctly Pagan in their 
origin, and could lay no claim to Divine 
inspiration, as is often claimed for them. 
Incidentally he uttered a warning against the 
•exclusive use of so-called " Gregorian music," 
pointing out what a retrograde course this 
was, and remarked that, on account of the 
uncertainty in deciphering the early music- 
notation, how difficult it was to determine 
just what the old "tones" were. Dealing 
with the obscure question as to the rise of 
harmony, and the way in which it was 
engrafted on the traditional plain song of the 
Church, Sir Frederick quoted extensively 



from writers on this subject, and inclined to 
the belief that harmony was invented by 
nations of Northern Europe, the English tak- 
ing the lead in this respect. In a masterly 
way he traced the history of the old art of 
descant, shewing how it became modified, 
improved, and ultimately developed into 
independent part writing, until florid counter- 
point and the polyphonic style of modern 
music was reached. A brief sketch of the 
features of the various great schools of 
ecclesiastical music followed, and he warned 
the young composers present against the 
modern tendency to secularise Church music, 
and advised a deeper study of counterpoint ; 
as he truly said — " No one would compose 
" worse secular music for having undergone 
" this training, while all who wished to write 
" music for Divine service would unques- 
" tionably feel the benefit of such a course." 
The lecturer next dealt with the use of 
various musical instruments in church. He 
expressed himself in favor of the employment 
of instruments, in addition to the service of 
the organ, proving his position by an exhaus- 
tive examination of instances related in the 
Old and New Testaments. Sir Frederick, 
shewed that the use of the organ exclusively 
was comparatively modern, that village 
orchestras lingered in many country places 
until our generation. He concluded by 
expressing the hope that orchestras would be 
again employed in assisting in frequent per- 
formances of oratorios in churches, and be 
available for the more complete accompani- 
ment of the canticles and great hymns of the 
Church. The paper was followed by an 
animated discussion, in which Sir John 
Stainer, J. Hullah, W. Chappell, C. E. 
Stephens, W. H. Cummings, W. Parratt, 
and Rev. C. Mackeson, took part 

In introducing the second paper cited, 
Ouseley said : " The object of the paper I 
" am about to read is to introduce to your 
"notice some of the principal Italian and 
" Spanish Treatises on Music of the fifteenth 
"and sixteenth centuries. It is a subject 
" which has never been much attended to in 
'•this country, probably on account of the 
" excessive rarity of the works in question ; 
" but which possesses a great deal of interest, 
" when viewed in connection with the History 
" of Musical Art." In order to illustrate the 



54 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



subject, Sir Frederick had upon the table 
several of these rare ancient treatises, thought- 
fully brought from his splendid library, and 
these were examined by the members present 
with much interest. Before noticing the early 
Italian and Spanish Treatises, Sir Frederick 
gave a rapid sketch of the progress of musical 
art from the time of Boethius (ob. 526), whose 
great work was the chief text-book on music 
for some 800 years, and only became super- 
seded by the writings of Guido, Franco, 
John Cotton, and Tinctoris. Dealing with 
the invention of measured music, and the 
discovery of harmony, Sir Frederick was not 
content with merely citing the names of the 
early writers, most of whose manuscripts have 
been printed by the Abbe Gerbertus and De 
Coussemaker, but he shewed how ample was 
his knowledge of these works, and how com- 
pletely he had grasped the main facts of 
musical history, by tracing the gradual emer- 
gence of the art from a melodic simplicity 
and mediaeval confusion, into a state of 
intelligible and scientific order. The first 
book he dwelt upon was that by the celebrated 
Franchinus Gaffurius (born 1451), an Italian 
priest who seems to have been a genius, so 
varied were his powers, and wide-ranging his 
writings. Sir Frederick described his several 
books on music, his lengthy controversy with 
Aron, Spataro, and Vulso (chiefly on trivial 
questions of intervals and ratios), and ex- 
plained his contrapuntal rules. Next was 
noticed Ramis de Pareja, a Spanish theorist 
(1440), the first to advocate something very 
like equal temperament. Then came Stefano 
Vanneus, an Augustinian monk, born at 
Ancona, in 1493 ; his Treatise on Counter- 
point explains the principle and practice of 
plain-song, solmization, mensurable music, 
and notation. Vanneus was the first who 
advocated the sharpening of the leading note 
of the scale, and in this valuable Treatise are 
to be found the germs of our modern tonality. 
Passing rapidly in review the writings of 
some sixteenth century Italian and Spanish 
theorists, Sir Frederick gave a succint account 
of the important works by Zarlino, the 
Maestro di Cappella at St. Mark's, Venice, in 
1565 ; he was a man of great ability, and 
enjoyed considerable fame as a composer, 
in addition to his theoretical writings. 
Sir Frederick then noticed the rare works 



by the learned Spanish Abbott Salinas, 
and by Cerone, an Italian priest, both of 
whom flourished in the middle of the six- 
teenth century. A brief account of the 
admirable book "Practica di Musica," by 
Zacconi, published in 1592, was the last of 
the works brought under review : the 
lecturer concluded with an eloquent perora- 
tion expressing admiration for the splendid 
music that was produced in the days of 
Palestrina, and by the worthies of our 
Elizabethian school, when the art was fenced 
about with the rigid and cramping rules laid 
down by the theorists up to the close of the 
sixteenth century. He shewed how paralysing 
the supremacy of the ecclesiastical plain-song 
must have been to the originators of new 
melodies and harmonies, and how wonderful 
it was that such beautiful and imposing music 
could have been produced by the men who 
lived in such times. A long and most inter- 
esting discussion ensued, Sir John Stainer 
the Chairman), Mr. W. Chappell, Rev. T. 
Helmore, Dr. J. F. Bridge, Mr. W. H. Cum- 
mings, Mr. G. A. Osborne, Dr. W. Pole 
Mr. C. E. Stephens, and Mr. A. D. Coleridge, 
taking part in it. Ample testimony was borne, 
to the great value of the paper as an historical 
resume of the speculative theories and formu- 
lation of the rules which had governed the 
art from its dawn in Europe down to the 
sixteenth century. The research displayed 
in this learned paper well exhibited the 
singular linguistic powers Sir Frederick 
possessed. He had mastered all the Latin, 
Italian, Spanish, and French works that had 
been cited. 

On February 6th, 1882, Sir Frederick 
Ouseley read a paper " On some Italian and 
Spanish Treatises on Music of the Seventeenth 
Century," a complement of the preceding 
discourse. He introduced the subject proper 
by a brief sketch of the progress of harmony 
from the time of Palestrina, when discords of 
suspension and passing notes were alone per- 
mitted, fundamental discords being as yet 
unrecognised. Modulation from key to key 
as we now understand it, did not exist, and 
there was no tonality beyond that of the old 
ecclesiastical scales. To Monteverde is 
ascribed the origin of modern tonality, the 
employment of dissonant chords without pre- 
paration, and from that came the free use of 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



55 



chromatic harmonies. The history of the 
gradual transformation of music from its 
severe scholastic form to the comparative 
freedom which obtained at the end of the 
seventeenth century, was told by Sir Frederick 
in his clear and felicitous style, the salient 
features being tersely pointed out. The first 
books he dealt with were the works of 
Giovanno Maria Artusi, besides his writings 
on the art of counterpoint; this Bologna 
canon fiercely attacked Monteverde and other 
innovators, characterising unprepared domin- 
ent sevenths and ninths as unwarrantable 
infringements of the ancient rules. Then 
came the curious treatise by Giovanni, 
d'Avella, a Franciscan Monk, who mixed up 
harmony with the music of the spheres and 
judicial astrology. The works of Doni, the 
inventor of the "Lyra Barberini," next 
passed under review, and Sir Frederick 
pointed out how useless was the vast amount 
of erudition he exhibited in an attempt to 
prove that the ancient Greek music was far 
superior to that of our own time, considering 
that no one could tell accurately what the 
Greek music was like, and so no comparison 
can be instituted. Passing over the mathe- 
matical "Sistema Musico" of Rossi, the pro- 
ductions of Angelo Beradi were next noticed. 
This writer was one of the first to treat on 
double counterpoint, the art of conducting 
a fugue by means of a tonal answer to the 
subject, an invention which substituted free 
fugues for canonical ones. Turning to the 
Spanish authors, Sir Frederick cited "El 
Porque della Musica" (1672), by Lorente 
the 'Commissary to the Inquisition at 
Toledo; and Pablo Nassarre's famous work 
on music, "Escuela Mrisica sequn la 
Practica Moderna" (Zaragosa, 1723); this 
work by the organist of the great Franciscan 
Monastery at Saragossa, is an admirable 
and well arranged compendium on music, 
accounting for every practical rule on 
philosophical principles and dealing with 
all the cardinal features of the art. The 
book on account of some of the speculations 
indulged in came under the condemnation 
of the Inquisition, and it is very rare. 
Copies of all the books alluded to were 
placed upon the lecture table for the 
-examination of the members present, and 
much gratification was expressed at the 



opportunity Sir Frederick had afforded of 
looking at these treasures he had brought 
up from Tenbury. In the discussion that 
followed, Sir George Macfarren, the Music 
Professor at Cambridge and Principal of 
the Royal Academy of Music, made a 
lengthy speech in which, inter alia, he 
stated that the chord of the dominant 
seventh ascribed to Monteverde was to be 
found in a composition by a native of 
Lorraine, Jean Mouton, who lived about a 
hundred years before Monteverde. Other 
speakers were Sir John Stainer, Dr. J. C. 
Bridge, Dr. W. Pole, Mr. C. E. Stephens, 
and Mr. W. Chappell. Mr. Cummings, 
the chairman, concluded by expressing the 
thanks of the meeting to Sir Frederick for 
the splendid paper he had read, and for the 
pleasure he had afforded the book-lovers 
by the production of these valuable old 
Spanish and Italian works on harmony, &c. 
Sir Frederick Ouseley's thoroughness and 
vast learning may be guaged from the reply 
he gave to Sir John Stainer, that he had 
read through every one of the books he had 
laid upon the table. 

On February 1st, 1886, Sir Frederick 
read a valuable paper " On the Position of 
Organs in Churches"; Sir John Stainer 
being in the chair. The question is one of 
exceptional interest to all who have to do 
with church architecture, or church music; 
on account of the many extraneous con- 
siderations which must necessarily enter 
into the subject, the problem is not an easy 
one to solve. It is evident that no one 
great general law can be laid down which 
shall apply equally to every case. The 
paper was an especially good one, and it 
well illustrated Ouseley's accumulated ex- 
perience and thought in dealing with so 
complicated a matter as the proper place 
for an organ in a church. He treated his 
subject (1) historically; (2) from a con- 
sideration of continental practice; and (3) 
with special reference to English places of 
worship at the present time. In the first 
division, Sir Frederick quoted from Dr. 
Rimbault's books, the "Syntagma" of 
Proetorius, the "Harmonicorum Liber," 
of Messeunus, the organ treatise of Dom 
Bedos, Dugdale, and the splendid work on 
old organ cases lately published by Mr. A. 



56 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



G. Hill. He showed how the ancient 
portative organ which was small and could 
readily be moved to any position, gradually 
grew into the large and complete organ of 
later times, for which a distinct and fixed 
position had to be found. This position 
followed no set rule but varied in the 
different cathedrals, particulars of which 
gathered from old records, books, and 
drawings were described. Owing to the 
sacrilegious violence of Cromwell's soldiery 
almost every old organ was destroyed, 
Chester being the only cathedral where the 
small primitive organ escaped; here it stood 
on the left (north) side of the choir. The 
lecturer said that prior to the Reformation 
there is no authenticated instance of an organ 
either on the rood loft or at the west end of 
a church. Sir Frederick related his ex- 
perience of the effects produced by different 
organs in notable churches abroad, detailing 
what a variety of positions were adopted, and 
pointing out that in some cases two, three, 
and even four separate organs were employed 
for worship purposes, whereas one suffices 
for our English service music. In approach- 
ing the consideration of our own modern 
requirements he remarked : — " It is evident 
that there are several, various, and often 
conflicting interests to be consulted in the 
selection of a proper site for a church organ. 
There are first the interests of the clergy, 
who regard the matter, perhaps, from an 
ecclesiological point of view. Then there are 
the interests of the singers in the choir, who 
will view the question on its vocal side. 
Next we have the interest of the organist, 
who regards the position of the organ from a 
comparatively instrumental aspect. After 
him comes the architect, who chiefly looks 
at the appearance of the case, and too fre- 
quently hates the organ altogether, and would 
fain conceal as much of it as possible. 
Lastly, there is the organ builder, who 
knows how much better his instrument will 
sound with free space around it, than when 
boxed up in a small chamber, and who feels 
that his reputation is more or less dependent 
on the decision as to locality to which those 
who have the management of the affair shall 
finally come. Here is, then, a fruitful source 
of quarrels and differences, of contentions 
and. recriminations, of jealousies and revil- 



ings, of grumbling and discontent." — Sir 
Frederick protested that he must not be 
expected to lay down some general or 
universally applicable rule for finding the 
best place for an organ. As he said, what 
was suitable for a large cathedral would be 
unsuitable for a small country church. In 
cathedrals he inclined to think that the best 
place musically was over the choir screen, 
though architecturally that position rendered 
it impossible to gain an uninterrupted view 
of the interior of the cathedral from west to 
east. He continued : " Speaking as a musi- 
cian, and a lover of cathedral services, I am 
inclined to advocate in all such cases the 
retention of the organ on the rood screen ; 
the bad effect to the eye can often be miti- 
gated by dividing the organ, so as to keep all 
the middle part at a low elevation, putting 
the tall pipes and all that tends to obstruct 
the view, on either side, as has been done 
at Westminster Abbey and Rochester 
Cathedral." The other alternative was to 
place it over the choir stalls on one side, 
but this has its disadvantages, so far as 
antiphonal singing is concerned. As the 
Lecturer said, a better plan is to divide the 
organ into two portions ; thanks to the excel- 
lent mechanical actions of to-day such an 
instrument can be readily brought under 
control. Sir Frederick concluded by advo- 
cating a small but good and well planned 
organ placed in the choir of small churches 
for choir accompaniment only ; but, " in a 
large church where there was no choir, but 
the whole congregation were in the habit of 
singing hymns at the top of their voices, 
what would be imperatively needed would be 
a large and powerful organ in a west end 
gallery to dominate and lead the singers, and 
to drown their, shouts if the cacophony 
became intolerable." The paper provoked 
a long and interesting discussion, in which 
the Chairman, Mr. J. Higgs, Dr. Pole, Mr. 
T. L. Southgate, Professor W. H. Monk, 
and Mr. Herbert took part. 



Sir Frederick Ouseley was pre-eminently 
a church musician ; the cultivation of 
Church Music and improvement of our 
service music was a subject in which he 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



57 



took more than a deep interest; it was the 
vi'etier of his life. It was quite natural, 
therefore, that owing to the exalted place he 
held in the musical hierarchy, as well as 
from his clerical position, that he should 
have been frequently asked to lecture on 
this subject at the various meetings of the 
Church Congress. It seems to have been 
felt on all sides that he could speak with 
special authority on the question of music in 
our churches. Ouseley was not only a 
thorough musician able to boast of con- 
siderable experience in the practice of the 
art, but he was also a clergyman warmly 
attached to the Church, impressed with her 
beautiful liturgy, and cognisant of the great 
value of music as an aid to devotion. He 
felt that oftimes the intellect could be 
reached, and the heart touched by sweet and 
solemn music, better than by other means. 
So the "music question'' at the various 
Congresses was one in which he took yery 
great interest, and to which he frequently 
contributed a paper, illustrating it with a 
carefully prepared performance of church 
music, the cost of which, with his accus- 
tomed liberality, he himself defrayed. At 
the third session held at Manchester in the 
year 1863, he read a paper of an historical 
character : in this he traced the growth of 
church music from the ordinary reading 
voice, not musical, through the employment 
of the monotone and the choral recitative, as 
used in the preces, versicles, responses, &c, 
to the measurable Psalm-chant, thence to the 
service and the anthem. The programme of 
the illustrations will best indicate the con- 
tents of the lecture itself : — 

Gloria to Benedictus in G minor . . . Farrant. 

Gloria to Jubilate in A Croft. 

" Hosanna to the Son '' Gibbons. 

" Thou knowest, Lord " Pur cell. 

" God is gone up " Croft. 

Hymn 193 (H. A. & M.) to the Old 113th. 

In 1867, at Wolverhampton, Sir Frederick 
Ouseley read a paper on the " Musical 
Training of the Clergy," from which a 
sentence or two may be extracted : — " I 
should very much like to see much more 
encouragement given to the study and 
practice of music among undergraduates. 
Unmusical authorities in the Universities 
naturally disapprove of, and therefore dis- 
courage, the cultivation of music. They 



regard it simply as a form of idleness, and as 
an obstacle to classical and mathematical 
studies. And it must be admitted that it 
may easily become so, if abused. But, 
under proper restrictions and regulations, the 
study and practice of music affords advan- 
tages which more than outweigh the dangers 
and drawbacks to which they are subject." 

In 1872, at Leeds, Ouseley was again the 
chief speaker, taking for illustration : — 

Some Psalms, chanted. 

The Service : Gloria Patri from the Jubilate 

Croft. 
The Anthem : " Call to remembrance " Farrant. 

"Hosanna" O. Gibbons. 

" Teach me, O Lord " Rogers. 

" O God, Thou art my God " ... Purcell. 
"Wherewithal shall a young man " Boyce. 
" Praise the Lord " Goss. 

In a short section on " Hymns," he instanced 
as inappropriate " La Suissesse au bord du 
lac," sung to an English hymn in a crowded 
church in London, asking, " how can such 
tunes — in 6-8 time, in tripping measure, in 
secular style, with associations of secular and 
even amorous and questionable words — how 
can such tunes conduce to devotion ? How 
can they enhance the perfection of sacred 
art ? How can they fail to degrade that 
which they seek to exalt ? How can they 
result in aught but the disgust and dis- 
couragement of all musical churchmen, the 
misleading of the unlearned, the abasement 
of sacred song, the falsification of public 
taste, and (last, but not least) the dishonour 
of God and His worship ? " In referring to 
the great improvement that has taken place 
in rural choirs, he said : " I think it may be 
asserted, without fear of contradiction, that 
the zeal and energy of the clergy in pro- 
moting the development of choral resources 
in their churches is, after all, the mainspring 
of all the great musical church revival to 
which I refer." 

At the Brighton Meeting in October, 1874, 
Sir Frederick Ouseley read a paper on "The 
Management and Training of Parochial 
Choirs, and the Organisation of Diocesan 
Choral Festivals." In this he remarked : — 
" It is difficult in these days to realise fully 
the ordinary state of our country choirs a 
century ago. And yet, unless we do so, we 
shall be unable duly to appreciate the vast 
improvement which has taken place in them 



58 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



in our own days. Forty years ago this pro- 
cess was already going on, and people then 
drew very favourable comparisons between 
the church music of that date and the church 
music of half-a-century sooner. By recalling 
our early recollections, then, and regarding 
them as an advance upon the ruder and more 
imperfect attempts in our grandfathers' days, 
we shall be able, perhaps, to conjure up a 
tone-picture of the fearful chaos of hideous 
sounds which was accepted in those days as 
sufficiently tuneful for the service of the 
sanctuary." He then drew a picture of the 
improved state of things, with the larger use 
of organs or harmoniums, the institution of 
the chancel choir, as against that of the west 
gallery, and the formation of diocesan choral 
festivals, as to which he recommends a 
different arrangement in successive years. 
One year, small country gatherings ; the next 
year, district choral meetings ; and the third 
year, one large central festival in the cathedral 
church. 

This was the last occasion on which 
Ouseley spoke on the interesting subject of 
church music, and its action on the religious 
life and thought. He always regarded music 
as a most valuable element of the religious 
culture of the day, and was ever an advocate 
of its extensive employment in our services ; 
he was constantly urging improvement of the 
practice and systems of the present, encourag- 
ing efforts thereto, and pointing towards an 
advance in the future. There can be no 
doubt that the earnestness and skill with which 
Sir Frederick Ouseley dealt with this subject 
met with the appreciation of thoughtful 
audiences gathered together from all parts of 
England ; and it is equally certain that the 
good seed he sowed, and the practical advice 
he gave, must have met with its due reward. 
Many clergymen must have carried away from 
these meetings suggestions and hints of how 
to employ music in our services that have 
borne good fruit in many a town and quiet 
country church in our land. 



IReminiscences from ©lo 
!frienD0. 



The above analysis of Lectures and Addresses has 
been most kindly prepared by Mr. N. L. South- 
gate. 



Sir Herbert Oakeley, Professor of 
Music in the University of Edinburgh, one 
of Sir Frederick's oldest friends, writes : — 

"My acquaintance with him began when 
he was at Langley, and while I was an 
under-graduate at Christ Church, during 
which time he paid occasional visits to 
Oxford. Scarcely a year subsequently 
passed without our meeting either there, in 
London, at S. Michael's, or at musical 
festivals. In 1858 we were guests of the 
late Mr. Linzee, near Romsey, when the 
organ in the fine Abbey Church there 
was opened by me, Sir Frederick preaching 
at the inaugurative service. We afterwards 
paid a visit to Dr. Wesley, at Winchester, 
who received us very kindly, placed Willis' 
fine organ at our disposal, and came to the 
cathedral as a listener; but, on the excuse 
of a cut finger, would not play on that 
occasion. Subjects for extemporaneous 
fugues were mutually given and worked out. 
No living British organist surpassed Ouseley 
in this now rare art. As you know, he 
would treat a fugal theme in its various 
contrapuntal possibilities, introducing 'in 
version,' 'augmentation,' 'stretto,' etc., if 
either device were feasible, and never 
abandoning legitimate style. I know of 
very few published fugues by Englishmen 
better than some of his improvisations. 
Instances of his accuracy of ear have no 
doubt been mentioned to you. His cer- 
tainty as to keys was well-known. Sharing 
with him, from my childhood, this useful 
gift, I may say that frequent opportunities 
occurred of testing his accuracy, and of 
comparing 'notes' during divers musical 
performances. 

"An eminent tenor may have sung 
'Waft her, angels,' in the key of six flats 
instead of in the original key a semitone 
higher; an eminent contralto may have 
lowered the original key of 'What tho' I 
trace'; an eminent soprano may have 
shirked the high key (F), of the difficult 
bravura song of the 'Queen of Night'; an 
eminent bass may have sung 'Qui sdegno,' 



SIR FREDERICK OUSEIEY. 



59 



from the same opera, in E flat, instead 
of Mozart's key of E natural; an eminent 
organist, to suit his instrument, may have 
played Beethoven's or Chopin's P.F. 'Marche 
Funebre,' a semitone higher than the 
original keys: a master of orchestration 
may have judiciously scored a brilliant 
pianoforte piece by Weber in D, in- 
stead of the original D flat; or a pianist, 
with less judgment, may have adopted an 
edition of a well-known £tude by Henselt 
in B fiat instead of in B natural; in either 
instance a sympathetic glance from Sir 
Frederick would show that at the first bar 
he had noticed the transposition. 

"On the occasion of the tercentenary 
of the University of Edinburgh in 1884, 
when it was my privilege to nominate 
Ouseley as one of the recipients of our 
LL.D. degree, his wonted accuracy as to 
pitch was manifested, both after our 
University Musical Society's Concert, of 
which he spoke in terms of warm com- 
mendation, but alluded to the necessary 
' transpositions which had been made ' ; and 
also regarding the organ in the Music Class- 
room, the low pitch of which instrument he 
at once remarked on. 

"Among the many admirers of his gifts, 
no one, I think, can more miss him than 
myself. I deplore the loss of a refined 
musician, a wise counsellor, and a sympa- 
thetic friend of 37 years' standing." 



From an Hon. Fellow of St. Michael's 
College. ' 

My friendship with our 

dear friend Ouseley lasted for a great many 
years, and was intimate. But what I know 
of him is, I fancy, only what was equally well 
knpwn to the hundreds whose lives were 
brightened by his unbounded kindness and 
cordiality. 

I have a pretty keen remembrance of one 
occasion when (at Langley) I arrived one 
snowy evening, after a fatiguing day in Lon- 
don, to take part in a devotional performance, 
in the Chapel, of the entire "Messiah"— 
nothing omitted, and standing throughout 
the three parts. It began, I think, at 8 p.m., 
and certainly did not end before midnight. 
Then he took us up into his own room, and 



rubbing his hands, said, " Well, I think we 
must want some refreshment." The refresh- 
ment was strong green tea ! Of course, an 
absolutely sleepless night followed, especially 
as the room was an exceedingly cold one. 

At day break, however, I was just drifting 
into unconsciousness, when a long single file 
of boys, in their night shirts, passed through 
the room on their way either to lavatory or 
oratory, I forget which. The next day was the 
prize day for the school, but, as might be ex- 
pected, Ouseley was disabled by head ache, 
&c, and commissioned me (a stranger to the 
place) to represent him and conduct the 
ceremonies ! I well remember, too, the 
misery which he suffered from the possession 
of that gorgeous, but perilous, heir loom — the 
Persian enamelled plate, of pure gold, which 
he used to hide under his coat and bring 
down with whispered cautions to shew his 
friends. Wishing you all success to your 
undertaking, &c, &c. 



From E. G. Monk, Esq., Mus. Doc. 

No one who knew our late dear friend 
intimately could fail to love him as a man, 
and honour him as a musician. His position 
as an English Church composer seems to me 
unique, when the excellence as well as the 
number of his sacred compositions is borne 
in mind ; while his labours in other paths of 
Church work, connected with his favourite 
art, are more widely known, perhaps, than 
they have been generously, or even 
adequately, acknowledged. His removal 
is an immense loss, both to the large circle 
of private friends by whom he was deser- 
vedly beloved ; to the cause of music in 
general and its scientific culture ; as well as 
to that of our Church, for which he did so 
much, and made such noble offerings of his 
exceptionally brilliant talents, fortune, and 
life. When, alas ! shall we look upon his 
like again ? 

Did you ever hear this ? Many years ago 
he said, in my hearing: " I look upon a 
wrong note in any public performance as a 
positive crime." 



The Rev. Marmaduke C. F. Morris, 
formerly Head-Master of S. Michael's, writes 
thus : — 

You will of course have numberless 



6o 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



instances of the extraordinary power and 
accuracy of Sir Frederick's ear. I remember 
his telling me that on one occasion many years 
ago, when he was going abroad for some 
time, he happened to be at S. Paul's, and 
when in the organ loft with Mr. Goss, the 
latter thought he would test the accuracy of 
Sir F.'s ear by asking him to try and 
remember the pitch of the organ until his 
return to London, which took place some 
months afterwards, when Mr. Goss found to 
his astonishment that Sir F. had remembered 
the pitch to a nicety. 

Again, when Sir F. came here (Newton- 
on-Ouse) in June, 1886, to preach on the 
occasion of the opening of our organ, he was 
standing with myself and others at the west 
end of the church listening to the instru- 
ment. While it was being played at full 
power, he suddenly remarked that there was 
a note (he named it) out of tune in one of 
the upper octaves of the mixtures. We were 
rather surprised, as the instrument had just 
been tuned throughout : the fault, however, 
was there — it was a very slight one, but he 
" spotted " it at once. 

Though his ear was so remarkable, his 
eyes seemed to lack the power of appre- 
ciating artistic or other beauty to any great 
extent. Did you ever notice this ? Beyond 
scenery and buildings, I hardly ever heard 
him remark upon the beauty of anything as 
presented to the eye. 

What admirably formed hands he had ! 
— you must often have noticed them. And 
how supple they were ! He could work all 
the joints of his fingers at will, and I believe 
those of his toes too ! 

With regard to the excellence of his hand- 
writing, he took rather a pride in it ; he 
always made his own pens, and never much 
liked other people using them, and if by any 
chance they did so without wiping the pen, 
he was always " down upon them " for it. 
His numerous correspondents could not but 
notice his uniformly exquisite writing : the 
original copy which I have of a song he 
wrote for me some years ago, " O where," is 
quite a model of penmanship. Sir F.'s love 
of indoor games was another of his character- 
istics ; even those of the simplest kind he 
entered into with all the zest and freshness 
of a boy, and he never seemed to grow weary 



of them. If, however, he was defeated 
through what he thought was his own 
stupidity, he would sometimes fly into a sort 
of passion which, I need hardly add, like a 
passing cloud, was over directly, and his 
wonted sunshine appeared again. 



A Cathedral Precentor, in a recent 
communication, remarks : — 

I fear that I am not likely to be able to 
contribute anything novel to your work. On 
the chance of some of them coming in I note 
one or two things that much struck me. 

(1) His extempore organ and P. F. playing. 
He was about the best extemporiser of 
a fugue in England. When in a good 
vein his playing was absolutely magnificent. 
I remember particularly one extempore fugue 
played after the last service in summer Term 
at St. Michael's, I think either in '83 or '85, 
which was quite one of the most sublime 
things I ever heard ; a fugue in which every 
variety of contrapuntal artifice was employed, 
followed by a Coda of extraordinary power — 
so, one would imagine, J. S. Bach played. 

(2) If you think of inserting music in your 
book, few things would create greater interest 
than the set of little fugues in the Oxford 
chimes, and as curiosities the canon that 
could be sung backwards, upside down, and, 
as it appeared from the other side of the 
paper when held up to the light, or again the 
chant that modulated up a semi-tone at each 
repetition, written for a man who wanted a 
receipt against his choir getting fiat ! You 
are, no doubt, aware of his remarkably pre- 
cise appreciation of absolute pitch, and of his 
facility in composition, e.g., the 12 part 
chorus, " War, Wine, and Harmony," written 
at Cambridge as an eirlSeifys of what Oxford 
could do. (3) Socially, I was as much struck 
by his intimate knowledge of Pickwick, as by 
anything else. Such knowledge was, I am 
told, not uncommon in that generation, but 
it certainly impressed a younger age to whom 
Pickwick is merely one book among many. 



Sir George Elvey, Mus. Doc, Late 
Organist of the Chapel Royal, Windsor, 
writes :— 

Many years ago I was sent over to his 
father's house at Beaconsfield, by the Hon 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



61 



Chas. Murray, to hear the boy play on the 
P.F. : he was then about 12 years old; he 
sat down to the instrument and extemporized 
in the most surprising manner. His father 
told me, that at the age of 7 years his son 
had a very serious illness, and he then com- 
posed a description of his sufferings and his 
recovery. (This will be found as No. 207 
in the MS. volume of his early compositions). 
Soon after this he wrote an opera, his father 
supplying him with the words. The great 
basso — La Blache, went to hear the boy 
play, and was as much astonished as myself. 
His ear was so quick that I was told, on a 
grand piano, if a note was out of tune, he 
would put his ear close to the instrument, 
and point to the wire that was at fault. This 
he did in the presence of La Bache, who 
exclaimed " Le Diable ! " 

Let me also mention, that in my presence, 
a heap of notes being put down by the palm 
of the hand, the boy actually named every 
one of them without seeing the key-board. 

I suppose you know that when Sir F. left 
London, he came to reside in the neigh- 
bourhood of Windsor. I saw a great deal 
of him at that time, and he frequently came 
over and played on the grand old Organ in 
S. George's Chapel, much to my delight. 
During this time he gave a private perform- 
ance, and I was the first violin : no one 
admired the talents of our dear friend more 
than myself, and I deeply regret that his 
compositions are not so well known as they 
ought to be. His last production was a 
rather elaborate anthem, composed for a 
Choral Festival at Salisbury. 



The Rev. Canon John Rich, Hon. 
Fellow of S. Michael's, and Vicar of Chip- 
penham, Wilts, writes as follows : — 

I have known our dear old friend Ouseley 
very many years intimately, before he was 
Sir F. I well remember his great distress, 
when he heard of his father's serious illness, 
and I do not think he got home in time to 
see him alive. A good memoir of him must 
be very interesting. He was full of fun, 
and his excitable impetuosity often made 
him more funny. I have been sorry to see 
anecdotes of him in the papers, which in 
many cases I know to have been very in- 



correct, though there was a foundation of 
truth to them. Do you remember his getting 
up the "Messiah," in the Town Hall, at 
Oxford, for the benefit of the Irish, in the 
famine of 1845 ? He also composed a glee, 
" Sweet Echo," proceeds to go to the same 
purpose. 

He and your brother Henry E. Havergal, 
and others, often sang glees in the summer 
evenings, in the Hall staircase at Christ 
Church ; the effect in " Quad " was almost 
like a band. When Dr. Marshall left Oxford, 
he acted as volunteer Organist to the 
Cathedral, for something like three or four 
months, and I do not think missed a service 
the whole time. 

Of course you know all about the S. 
Barnabas riots. I enclose a letter which I 
had from him at that time. I had also 
several very interesting letters from him when 
he was abroad, after the break up at S. 
Barnabas. 

" Multis ille bonis flebilis occidit, 
Nulli flebilior quam " mihi. 

The following is a portion of the letter 
referred to, written in a very small, 'neat 
hand : — 

Nov. 26th, 1850. 

" You have doubtless read in the papers, 
accounts of the outrageous attack which 
was made by the mob on S. Barnabas' 
Church last Sunday. But as the accounts 
in some of the papers are incorrect, it is 
possible that you and others may have been 
misled, as to the facts of the case. I write 
this to tell you how it all happened, both 
because I know you will take an interest in 
the matter, and because I am anxious the 
truth should be widely known. 

On Sunday (Nov. 10) just as the non- 
communicants were about to retire, a great 
hissing was heard in the church with loud 
cries of " Popery," etc. This was, of course, 
stopped, and the service proceeded ; but a 
multitude of men had collected outside, 
prepared to make a rush had any sympathy 
been evinced within. A great crowd collected 
in the evening, but we avoided all disturbance 
then by omitting the service at seven. Mr. 
Bennett remained at S. Barnabas to defend 
his family and property if necessary, and sent 
me to preach for him at S. Paul's, at six. 



02 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



When I returned at 8.30, I found the crowd 
gathered in knots of men, threatening what 
they would do next Sunday. I had been 
insulted and threatened the night before in 
the street, and Mr. Bennett too had received 
several threatening letters. We had every 
reason to be certain of a more violent attack 
on Sunday, the 17th, so we took every pre- 
caution to be prepared for it, nor were they 
superfluous. The eight and nine o'clock 
services went off quietly, but at 10.30 the 
mob began to collect, but luckily our own 
congregation were seated in time. Nothing 
in the church happened before the sermon, 
but during it a prodigious yell was heard 
without, which frightened some of our people 
much. The church was crammed to suffo- 
cation, and a body of staunch friends were 
stationed up the body of the nave to prevent 
any attack on ihe chancel. When the sermon 
was concluded, and the non-communicants 
prepared to retire, a violent rush was made 
by the populace outside, and doubtless had 
they succeeded in their attempt, our beautiful 
edifice would have been dismantled, and our 
lives endangered. We know that was their 
object, but it pleased God to defeat their 
sacrilegious intention. The well-affected 
within were too strong for them ; 100 police- 
men succeeded in quelling the mob without, 
sufficiently to let the congregation retire. 
The organist, by my direction, played " Full 
Organ" the whole time to drown the row, 
which had no small effect in preventing the 
disaffected from communicating with one 
another. In about 40 minutes the church 
was at length cleared. It was truly gratifying 
to see the very large number of communicants 
■who remained to thank God in this way for 
His Almighty protection." 



An Honorary Fellow observes : — 

I remember, that he used more frequently 
than not, to sign his letters to me, with a 
musical monogram. He may probably have 
signed letters to you in the same manner : 
his letters to myself generally began : " My 
dear Ecce iterum." 

The monogram consisted of minims on 
the alto clef, lines 1, 2, and 5, surrounded by 
an 0. 



Another Honorary Fellow, now in 
Canada, says : — 

I should require some time to piece any 
recollections together, but your letter only 
reaches me the very day you name as the 
latest, etc. I look on him, as not only a 
musician of extraordinary natural gifts, but 
as a man of much general ability, and as a 
true Christian gentleman. 



Mr. Basil Harwood, organist of Ely 
Cathedral, writes as follows : — 

I see from a paragraph in the Musical 
Standard of Sept. 20th, that you are looking 
out for early compositions by Sir F. Ouseley. 
I have a book containing a March in C and 
an Air in A^., both written by him at the 
age of 6 (these are found in the MS. volume 
of Sir F.'s early compositions, as Nos. 197 
and 294). The title of the book in which 
these occur is 'Original Compositions in 
Prose and Verse,' illustrated with lithographic 
drawings, to which is added some vocal and 
instrumental music ; the book commences 
with the ' Legend of the Lonely Lake,' by 
R. H. ; ' Resignation,' a poem by Lady 
Charlotte Bury. Edmund Lloyd was the 
publisher, Harley Street, Cavendish Square, 
London, 1833. 



There is an introduction and fugue by Sir 
R. Stewart, in English Organ Music, No. ix., 
vol. II, published by W. Reeve, 185, Fleet 
Street. The introduction consists of 7 bars, 
and there is a footnote to it stating that it is 
adapted from a work written by Ouseley at 
the age of 8. 

I have heard Sir F. mention the fact of 
his having written compositions at a very 
early age, and he talked of looking through 
some old music to see if any could be found, 
but I have not heard the result. (This 
precious volume was found October 10th, 
1889.) I have also heard Sir F. say that 
he played a duett on the pianoforte with 
Mendelssohn at 6 years of age, when he was 
a guest at his father's house. He also, in 
his youthful days, invented some kind of 
cypher by which he and his sister could talk 
together — no one else understanding what 
they were saying. 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



63 



There are many who could bear witness to 
his wonderful extemporaneous powers, and 
to his amiability in doing his best to oblige 
whenever called upon, even though he might 
not be feeling quite in the vein for it. One 
of the last compositions he wrote was a 
concluding voluntary for the organ, pub- 
lished in the Organists' Quarterly Journal 
(Vol. II., Part 81), of which he gave me the 
MS., which I shall always prize. You will 
probably know better than I do what a 
wonderful store of general information he 
possessed, and how accurate and retentive was 

his memory He devoted himself 

entirely to the good of others, narrowing his 
own private means, living a simple life, and 
devoting his fortune and his powers to raising 
the dignity of the worship of God. 

A former Organist of St. Michael's. 
September 24th, 1889. 

Dr. Barrett writes thus : — 

The majority of musicians who only knew 
Sir Frederick Ouseley through the medium 
of his compositions, had no means of forming 
a true estimate of his genius. His versatility 
was extraordinary, and his modesty was only 
equalled by the extent of his powers. He 
could perform well on many instruments, 
and knew the peculiarity of those he played 
upon so as to get unusual and even humorous 
effects from them. Often when he has con- 
cluded a difficult solo, or at the end of a 
graceful trio, or a classical sonata, the 
buoyancy of his spirits was elevated to such 
a degree, that they could only be reduced to 
their level by a little exhibition of pleasantry. 
Thus, keeping the violoncello in hand when 
he had finished his part, and the music was 
ended, he would startle his hearers with the 
performance of an eccentric fantasia, such as 
"The pig's march," accompanied by extra- 
ordinary grimaces probably wrung from his 
musical sensibility by the hideous sequence 
of sounds such as the animals might be 
supposed to utter under the influence of 
compulsory rhythmical progress. 

He would sing Spanish songs in various 
Castilion dialects, after the manner of the 
native singers, in a more or less tuneless 
style. He would sometimes accompany 
himself in one key and sing in another. 



This was for him not a difficult feat, so 
much as one of great self-denial. His ear 
was so sensitive and acute that it was a great 
trial to him to have to endure anything sung 
or played out of tune. Many other like 
things he would do in music, thus shewing 
that the most highly cultivated minds are as 
keenly appreciative of the ludicrous as well 
as of the serious side of art. He could tell 
stories with the greatest relish and graphic 
power, and, unlike most story-tellers, he was 
not impatient of rivalry. He loved to hear 
his own anecdotes " capped," as he loved to 
" cap " other people's stories. He collected 
droll and amusing replies to musical ques- 
tions, which had occurred within his own 
experience, or those of his friends, and these 
sort of commonplace books he delighted to 
exhibit to all who could relish and enjoy 
their peculiarities. 

As a musician he shone best in private life 
and among sympathetic friends. It is a 
singular fact that when he took pen in hand 
to write he was a totally different being to 
what he was seated at his own pianoforte 
pouring out his mind. No one than he was 
better acquainted with the intricacies of 
musical composition. He knew every knot 
and subtlety of contrapuntal art, and could 
deal with them in a more ready way than 
any of his contemporaries. He was pedantic 
often in his writings, but he was not so in 
himself. He possessed great facility in com- 
position, and having the power of dealing 
with its intricacies, sometimes thought that 
the proper and direct way of acquiring ease 
in writing was gained through self-restrictions. 
Thus he was wont to affirm that all com- 
posers ought to write one or more canons in 
various styles before breakfast, because this 
form of artifice gave him no trouble. It 
would seem as though when he prepared 
himself to write his thoughts he posed as 
"the learned Doctor Ouseley." Conse- 
quently, those who knew his great musical 
powers did not find them always represented 
in his compositions. His great imagination 
represented in his earliest years by the com- 
position, among other things, of a Cantata 
descriptive of his sufferings during the 
progress of a fever, is only to be traced in 
his later instrumental works, rarely in his 
vocal compositions. It found full expres- 



64 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



sion, however, in his extempore playing. In 
this, competent judges have expressed their 
opinion that he was unrivalled by any 
musician of the present century. None 
like him were able to treat a theme with all 
the resources of the art of form, or to invest 
it with an interest such as is found chiefly in 
the master works of the acknowledged best 
composers. Unlike many extempore players 
who have a convenient stock of passages 
which they employ to disentangle themselves 
from occasional embarrassments, his ideas 
were always fresh, appropriate, and so well 
ordered that he seemed to be playing an 
already written piece from memory, rather 
than an impromptu effusion growing under 
his hand. Had the instrument for register- 
ing performances been perfected and a 
record kept of Sir Frederick Ouseley's 
extempore effusions, sonatas, airs with varia- 
tions, fugues, and fancies of all sorts, those 
of his fellow musicians who knew him only 
by his name, and his printed compositions, 
would have<been enabled to form as high an 
estimate of his musical genius as that which 
is held as a cherished memory by his 
personal friends, and by none more earnestly 
than by 

Wm. Alex. Barrett, M.D. 
Nov. 5, 1889. 



Zbe Consecration of 
St. fllMcbad's Cburcb, 1856. 



In the Hereford Times and Journal of 
October 4th, 1856, appears a full report of 
the consecration of the church of St. Michael 
and All Angels, on September 29th, 1856. 
This report revives many old memories of 
the men and events of a past generation. 
The report proceeds as follows : — 

"Such a busy stir as there was at Tenbury 
on Monday last has never before animated 
that usually peaceful town. The morning 
was cold and wet, but as the day advanced, 
the leaden clouds withdrew their gloomy 



— ■ Boardman 
Paul Butler 
Alfred J. Caldicott 



forms and a fine day succeeded. Carriages 
rattled to and fro to the spot with an 
increased rumble. By eleven o'clock there 
must have been 600 or 700 persons present, 
and later in the day between 300 and 400 
persons — clergy and laity — partook of the 
Holy Communion. 

THE PROCESSION 

Was formed under the superintendence of 
Col. Rushout, in the following order : — 

THE CHOIR, 

Composed of the following Gentlemen from 
the Chapel Royal, Windsor; St. James's, 
London; Hereford Cathedral, Oxford, Exeter, 
Gloucester, Worcester, and St. Michael's 
choir. 

TREBLES. 

In London business. 
In the army, as supposed. 
One of the Professors at the 
Royal College of Mus., 
London. Author of 
"Widow of Nain," and 
many other works. He 
subsequently had two sons 
in the choir, Alfred Ernest 
and Cecil. 
Hop and Seed Merchant. 
Mayor of Worcester in 
1888. 
Chaplain R.N. Bishop 
designate for the Corea. 
Convocation at Oxford 
conferred the degree of 
D.D. Honoris Causa Oct. 
22, 1889. 
Solicitor. Died about 1884. 
R. of Norton, Stoke-upon- 
Trent. 

Died in 1864. 
R.N. Died about 1862. 
Living in Monte Video. 
Chapel Royal boy. Now 

Sir Arthur Sullivan, Mus. 

Doc, the well known 

composer. 
Barrister. Organist at Hong 

Kong. 
Ostrich farming in Africa. 



Herbert Caldicott 
C. J. Corfe 



Hugh Dean 

T. H. B. Fearon 

— Gerounde 
E. Kirwan 
W. Kirwan 
H. Lockyer 
Arthur Sullivan 



C. Sangster 
O. Sangster 

Mr. W. J. Burville 



ALTOS. 

Lay Clerk 



Mr Alfred John Capel 



of Hereford 
Cathedral, 185 1 , to present 
time. 
St. Michael's choir, after- 
wards Minor Canon, 1875, 
and Vicar of S. John 
Baptist, Hereford, 1877. 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY 



65 



Rev. Henry E. Havergal Vicar of Cople, Beds. Died 

Jan., 1875. 
Rev. Sir F. Ouseley Founder of Church and 

College. Died April 6, 



Mr. James Barnby 
Rev. T. Vere Bayne 
Mr. J. C. Biiddinger 
Rev. H. Fyffe 
Rev. John Goss 

Mr. John Hampton 
Rev. T. Helmore 



Mr. — James 

Rev. H. McLaughlin 



Rev. R. Norman 



Capt. — Ottley 
Rev. — Walker 



Mr. H. Barnby 



Mr. Thomas Carpenter 

Sir William Cope, Bart. 
C. J. Corfe 

A. Trevor Crispin, Esq. 
Mr. Flight 

R. Haking, Esq. 

Rev. F. T. Havergal 

Rev. C. T. Heartley 
Rev. John Jebb 



TENORS. 

Lay-Vicar of Hereford 
Cathedral to 1868. 

Student of Christ Church, 
Hereford, Censor 1863-77 

Master of the Parish School. 
Died Jan. I, 1889. 

Principal of S. ^Helen's 
College, Southsea. 

Minor Canon ; afterwards 
Custos of the College and 
Vicar of S. John Baptist, 
Hereford. Died Sep., 
1877. 

Choir Master of S. Michael's. 
Incumbent and now War- 
den of S. Michael's Col- 
lege. 1889. 

Late Master of the Children 
of H.M. Chapels Royal, 
1846 to 1886. 

R. of Boraston and Preb. 

of Hereford Cathedral. 

Died 1882. 
Sometime Warden of Rad- 

ley, now Dean and Rector 

of Quebec, Canada. 
Deceased. 



BASSES. 

Member of the Choir of 
Armagh Cathedral for 
some years, then for 25 
years gentleman of H.M. 
Chapel Royal, Windsor. 
Died 1886. 

Lay- Vicar of Hereford 
Cathedral, afterwards of 
Armagh. Died 187-? 



Mus. Doc, Organist of 
Christ Church, Oxford. 

Of "The Treasury." 

Builder of the Organ in 
1856. 

Now Mus. Doc, Oxon., 
and R. of Congham, 
King's Lynn. 

Minor Canon of Hereford, 
now Preb. of Colwall, and 
V. of Upton Bishop. 

Head Master, now R. of 
Cheveley, Newmarket. 

R. of Peterstow, afterwards 
Hon. D. D., T. C. D., 
Chancellor and Canon of 
Hereford. Died 1886. 



Rev. J. W. Joyce 
Mr. R. Mann 

E. G. Monk, Esq. 
Rev, E. Wellings 
Rev. J. B. Wickes 



R. of Burford, Preb. of 
Hereford. Died 1887, 

S. Michael's Choir. Or- 
ganist of Cirencester. 
Died 1869. 
Mus. Doc, late Organist 
of York Minster. 

Late Incumbent of Stam- 
ford-in-the-Vales. 

Boughton, near Northamp- 
ton. 



The Clergy connected with the Diocese, two and two. 

The Clergy of other Dioceses. 

The Registrar. H. C. Beddoe, Esq. 

The Bishop's Chaplain, Rev. E. R. Hampden. 

The Verger, carrying the Bishop's mace. 

The Bishop of Hereford. 

The Laity. 



©rganists of St. fflMcbael's. 



1. John Capel Hanbury, B.A., Wadham College 

Oxford; Michaelmas Term, 1856, 

2. John Stainer, Mus. Bac, 1858; Michaelmas 

Term, 1857. 

3. Langdon Colborne, Spring Term, i860 ; Mus. 

Bac, 1864 (ob. Sep. 1889). 

4. G. v E. Alexander, late organist of the Parish 

Church, Wigan ; Michaelmas Term, 1874. 

5. William Claxton, B.A„ Mus. Bac, 1882, Trinity 

College, Oxford ; Michaelmas Term, 1877 

6. Walter J. Lancaster ; Michaelmas Term, 1886. 

7. Allan Patterson, appointed July, 1889. 



THE ORGAN. 

When the church was consecrated in 1856, 
the organ, then being erected by Mr. Flight, 
of London, was in a most incomplete state. 
Dr. George Elvey played; the service was 
Rogers in D, the anthems, "I have surely 
built Thee," Boyce, and " Praise the Lord," 
Goss. This instrument was not a great 
success. This was succeeded by another 
large organ of 65 stops, by Harrison, of 
Rochdale, which, after being in hand several 
years, was completed in November, 1867. 
This instrument proving unsatisfactory, the 
present magnificent organ was constructed 
by our great English Builder, Mr. Willis, of 



66 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



London, in 1873-74, of which the following 
is a description : — 

GREAT ORGAN, CC TO G. 



I 


Bourdon ... 


16 feet tone 


2 


Double Diapason 


16 


)) 


3 


Open Diapason, large... 


8 


,, 


4 


Open Diapason, small... 


8 


»> 


5 


Stopped Diapason 


8 


>) 


6 


Claribel 


8 


J» 


7 


Quint 


6 


) ) 


8 


Harmonic Flute... 


4 


>) 


9 


Principal... 


4 




10 


Twelfth 


3 


,, 


11 


Fifteenth 


2 


)1 


12 


Furniture 






13 


Mixture ... 






14 


Trumpet... 


8 


») 


15 


Clarion .. 

SWELL. 


4 


J» 


1 


Bourdon ... 


16 feet tone 


2 


Double Bassoon... 


16 


J» 


3 


Open Diapason ... 


8 




4 


Stopped Diapason 


8 


,, 


5 


Salcional... 


8 


, } 


6 


Oboe 


8 


i3 


7 


Cornopean 


8 


)» 


8 


Vox Coelestis 


8 


3> 


9 


Vox Humana 


8 


„ 


10 


Principal... 


4 


,, 


11 


Fifteenth 


2 


, j 


12 


Clarion ... 


4 


„ 


13 


Mixture ... 

CHOIR ORGAN 






1 


Great Diapason... 


8 feet tone 


2 


Claribel ... 


8 




3 


Gamba ... 


8 




4 


Dulciana... 


8 




5 


Small Principal ... 


4 




6 


Harmonic Flute... 


4 




7 


Stopped Flute 


4 




8 


Clarionet... 


8 




9 


Piccolo ... 

SOLO. 


2 




1 


Harmonic Flute... 


8 feet tone 


2 


Gamba ... 


8 




3 


Clarionet... 


8 




4 


Orchestral Oboe 


8 




5 


Concert Flute ... 


4 




6 


Tuba 

PEDAL. 


8 




1 


Stopped Diapason 


32 feet tone 


2 


Open Diapason (wood)... 


16 


., 


3 


Open Diapason (metal)... 


16 


») 


4 


Violone ... 


16 


r) 


5 


Stopped Diapason 


16 


JJ 


6 


Principal 


8 


,, 


7 


Violoncello 


8 


;t 


8 


Quint 


12 


M 


9 


Fifteenth 


4 


>) 


10 


Ophicleide 


16 


91 


11 


Clarion ... 


8 




12 


Furniture 







9 Couplers, 9 Composition Pedals ; pneumatic 
action to Great Organ and Couplers; Tremulant to 
Swell, and Pedals. 

Note. — Sir F. O. gave his advice to a large number 
of clergy and others on the building or restoration of 
organs. It must not be forgotten how largely he 
gave, and the trouble he took about the organ of Here- 
ford Cathedral, 1861 to 1864. He also collected 
much valuable information on the various organs that 
had been erected in the Cathedral during the last 
three centuries. His intention was to publish what 
he had collected, but his other numerous engagements 
obliged him to abandon the attempt. 



Sir ffreoericfc's £arl£ 
Compositions 



This precious small volume, size 9^ by 5 j4, 
containing 243 examples, is preserved at 
S Michael's College. Many were com- 
posed for his parents, chiefly Waltzes and 
Marches. 

No 73 was composed for H.RH. the Prin- 
cess Augusta, Oct. 28th, 1830. 

No 238 for her Majesty, Queen Adelaide, 
September nth, 1835. 

Other melodies for Lady Isabella Fitzgibbon, 
Lady Denbigh, Hon. Miss Jervis, Madame 
Pasta, Madame Weiss, Sir Herbert Taylor, 
and others. 

No. 207 is a musical description of his ill- 
ness in 1832 — Andante expressivo — begin- 
ning to be a little ill — now I'm very ill, 
iller than ever — blisters — a little better — 
not quite well yet — now I'm quite well ! * 

The earliest example is dated Nov. 1828, 
when 3 years and 3 months old. 

219 were written before he was six years old. 

* His medical attendant was a Dr. Granville. This 
piece was intended as a present for him, for the care 
and attention bestowed on the young patient. The 
Harmonicon, May, 1833, on this particular composition 
observes — " Though an abundance of lively fancy is 
displayed in this, there is nothing in it at all extrava- 
gant or ridiculous; on the contrary, it is strictly 
in rigele, and expresses as well as inarticulate sounds 
are capable of expressing sensations, all the variety of 
feeling which he experienced in the course of a long 
fever." 



SIR FREDERICK OUSELEY. 



67 



OUTLINE OF THE FIRST OPERA 
Composed by F. A. G. Ouseley. 

Age 1% Years. 

Page. 

1. Maestoso — Overture. 

2. Migretto Grazioso — Aria. 

7. Allegretto — Huntsman's Bugles at a distance. 

8. Andante con Espressione — Aria, Tom's 

Mama, 

10. Recitative — 

11. " Huntsman's Chorus.'' 
13. Aria — Tom. 

15. Recitative — Georgina and Tom. 

15. Cavatina — ■ 

20. Duet — 

25. Tempest — Tom's Mama and Georgina. 

28. The Vault Scene. 

30. Quartet — 

33. Aria— Tom's Mama. 

35. Recitative — Tom, and Tom's Mama. 

39. Aria — Tom. 

43. Peasant's Dance 

The MS. consists of 53 pages of 6 lines each, and 
has no distinguishing title. 



Competitions. 



In 1833, when about eight years old, he 
produced his new and much larger Opera, 
with Italian words, forming a thick volume, 
which is preserved in the Library at S. 
Michael's College. (See page 10.) 



The Musical Library of September 1834, 
says : — Last winter this active minded child 
(Ouseley), composed an entire Operetta, 
" L'Isola Disabitata" of Metastasio, which it 
was intended should be privately performed 
last spring. The article also reviews a new 
Duet, then just published by Novello, 
entitled — "Vanne a regnar besnomio, per 
Soprano e Contralto composto da Frederick 
Arthur Gore Ouseley, all ' eta di otto anni." 
It remarks on the manliness of the composi- 
tion as quite unexpected from so youthful a 
pen. There are a few notes which an ex- 
perienced composer would not have used, 
but they will serve to convince the sceptical, 
if any there' be, that the author had no 
professional aid in this production — a work 
which from a child of eight years, will hardly 
fail to be received with astonishment. 



»"°©»< 

It has been found impracticable to collect 
a complete list of Sir Frederick Ouseley's 
Works, but the following are to be found in 
the Bodleian Library : — 

Choral Worship of the Church. Sermon at Derby, 

1861. 8vo. 
A Sermon — Jerusalem at Unity, 1863. 8vo. 
Treatise on Harmony. Oxford, 1868. 4to. 

2nd Edition. Oxford, 1875. 4to. 

Sermon on Secular Education. Ludlow, 1869. 8vo. 
Treatise on Counterpoint, canon and fuge, based 

upon that of Cherubini. Oxford, 1869. 4to. 
Treatise on Musical Form. Oxford, 1875. 4to, 
Sonata for the Organ. London, 1877. 4to. 
Anthem — From the rising of the sun. — Novello's 

Tonic-sol-fa Series, No. 238. London, 1884. 4to. 
Morning and Evening Service, for a full orchestra 

and organ. 8-part chorus. London. 1884. fol. 
Order of Service for Children, Music by Sir F. O., 

and others. London, 1884. 
Overture to Hagar, arranged for Organ by B. W. 

Horner. London, 1884. 4to. 
Overture to the Martyrdom of St. Polycarp, arranged 

for the Organ by Burnham W. Horner. London. 

1885. 4to. 

History of Music, by E. Naumann, edited by Sir F. 

G. O., in 2 vols., published in parts by Cassell & 

Co. London, 1882. 8vo. 

Another issue. Parti. London, 1888. 8vo. 

Voluntary for Christmastide, No. 8. London, 1883. 

fol. 
Voluntary — Organist compositions for the Organ, 

No. 9. London, 1883. fol. 
Second Sonata for the Organ. London, 1883. 4to. 
Martyrdom of S. Polycarp — Sacred Oratorio. London 

1886. 8vo. 

Home Mission Hymn— Holy Lord Thy tender mer- 
cies. Music only. London, 1887. 8vo. 

Original compositions for the Organ. No. 83. 
London, 1888. 4to. 



In Sir G. Grove's Dictionary of Music, 
the following additional works are men- 
tioned : — 

Opera, "LTsola Disabitata." 1833. 
Exercise, a Cantata, " The Lord is the true God." 

1850. 
Oratorio, " S. Polycarp." 1854. 
Oratorio, "Hagar." 1873. 
Collection of Cathedral Services. 1853. Edited by 

Sir F. O. 



68 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



Anglican Psalter and Chants, edited by 
Dr. Monk and Sir Herbert S. Oakley, Mus. 
Doc. 

Sir G. Grove states, Diet., page 617, "He 
has composed eleven services, one of which 
in eight parts is still in MS., and another 
recently written has orchestral accompani- 
ments. He has also published upwards of 
70 anthems, and has edited the sacred works 
of Orlando Gibbons. His compositions for 
the organ include a set of 6, one of 7, and 
one of 18 Preludes and Fugues, also 6 
Preludes, 3 Andantes, and 2 Sonatas. He 
has also written some dozen glees and part 
songs, several solo songs with piano accom- 
paniments, and two stringed quartetts, &c. 
His Oratorio " Hagar " was produced at the 
Hereford Festival of 1873, and performed in 
the following year at the Crystal Palace." 

He also wrote about' the year 1855 a glee 
" Sweet Echo " ; profits towards the Famine 
in Ireland. 

Also Festival Anthems for the restoration 
of Lichfield Cathedral in 1857, and for 
Hereford Cathedral in 1863. 

Special anthems for certain Festivals by 
various composers, Vol. I. in 1861, and Vol. 
II. in 1866. 

Treatise on Harmony, 3rd edition, 1880. 
„ Counterpoint, 2nd edition, 1880. 
„ Musical Form, 2nd edition. 1886. 

The Oratorio of " St. Polycarp " was per- 
formed at the Hereford Festival of 1888, 
when the author was present, being then 
Canon in residence. 




Sir f. H. <5. ©useless Xast 
Composition. 



>o^K- 



The anthem which may be regarded as his 
last great work, was effectively performed in 
Salisbury Cathedral, June 6th, 1889, by 3,000 
singers, with full band and organ. 

The Choral Union Committee for that 



diocese had invited Sir F. O. to write it 
specially for the Union. In the last report 
it is stated, "The anthem is a remarkable 
composition, very original in form, and 
admirably adapted for performance by a 
large body of singers of varied capabilities." 

Variety has been secured by the alternate 
use of a grand chorus, either in unison or 
in four-part easy harmony, and of a select 
chorus the parts for which are sometimes 
treated in eight real parts, sometimes in 
four : and of a quartet which is effectively 
introduced into the work. 

Only easy and broad passages are assigned 
to the grand chorus, so that every village 
choir will be able to take its part in the 
anthem. 

Special pains have been taken with the 
orchestration. The accompaniments have 
been scored for a very large band of brass, 
wood-wind and strings, with organ obligato, 
but some of the instruments are really ripieni, 
and could be omitted, as for instance the 
contra fagotto and bass tuba. If all could 
be employed the result would be very fine ; 
the contrast between the large body of voices, 
supported by such a band with organ, and 
the quartet accompanied by strings (pizzicato) 
and harp, would be especially striking. 

Altogether the work abounds in original 
and massive combinations, and no pains have 
been spared in its elaboration. It is a noble 
work suited to a noble occasion." 

The words of the anthem are •' It is a good 
thing to give thanks unto the Lord," &c, 
Psalm xcii. ver. 1 to 6. Four bodies of 
singers are required. Quartet for S. A. 
T. B., Soli. Two select Choirs, Decani and 
Cantoris and full choir. The anthem con- 
cludes with this doxology — 

To Father, Son and Holy Ghost, 

The God whom we adore, 
Be glory as it was, is now, 
And shall be evermore. 

Printed by Novello, Ewer, & Co. 

The organ accompaniment which Sir F. O. 
reluctantly wrote out for the special perform- 
ance was lithographed, but is not published 
as he did not wish the anthem to be performed 
except as he had written it. 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



69 



proposed flDemorial to 

Sir ff. ©usele& in Ibereforo 

Catbeoral. 

♦•♦♦^♦♦^•♦♦■^ 

SPEECH OF THE DEAN, 

The Bishop, the Canons, the Mayor, and 
other Clergy and Citizens being present, August 
3rd, 1889 : — 

"We have met together to-day, because 
the friends of the late Sir Frederick Ouseley 
think there ought to be a memorial to him 
in this Cathedral. It is well known to all 
present that Sir Frederick was connected 
with the Cathedral for more than 30 years as 
Precentor, and you know that the Precentor- 
ship, though a very high office, was an unpaid 
one ; it had been disendowed so far as 
income went, and was purely an honorary 
office. Still, in spite of that, Sir Frederick 
always took pains to help in anything con- 
nected with the Choir. Whenever there was 
any election of a vicar choral, or assistant 
vicar choral, or even of a Chorister, Sir 
Frederick was invariably present, even mak- 
ing purpose journeys in order to be with 
them, and on all other occasions in anything 
connected with the Cathedral, and its well- 
being, he was always ready to be present, 
and to give them the help of his counsel, of 
his judgment, and of his musical experience. 
There is just one little difficulty before us to- 
day, and we must face it. Our action to-day 
might seem to interfere with the collection 
which Sir Frederick's friends and admirers 
are striving to make towards the sustentation 
of S. Michael's College on its present foot- 
ing. It might seem that in seeking to place 
a memorial in the Cathedral, we are in a 
way interfering with the other scheme. Now 
I am sure nothing could be further from our 
intentions. Nothing could be further from 
the thought in our minds — far from_ it. 
Many of us wish well to that other collection, 
if it could he made, but we do think that 
whilst the general memorial should be for 
S, Michael's, there ought to be a local 
memorial to Sir Frederick as Precentor for 
.so many years of Hereford Cathedral. But 



don't let me place the reason of the memor- 
ial only on that official connection of his 
with the Cathedral. We do not forget his 
general goodness. He was a most kind 
friend, a most hospitable neighbour, and we 
always found him most unselfish and gen- 
erous, and I think we all feel that we ought 
not to allow him to pass away without plac- 
ing some little memorial at least, in our 
Cathedral, to mark our affection and esteem 
for him, and our deep reget at his lamented 
loss. I have said these few words ; now 
perhaps we had better discuss the matter, 
and propose one or two resolutions." 

After the Bishop and others had spoken, 
Mr. T. Llanwarne proposed, that a Com- 
mittee be formed, for carrying out the 
proposal, which should report to another 
meeting. 

Meetings have been held on this subject, 
but no decision has yet been made. My 
cherished hope of concluding this work, with 
a description of the Cathedral Memorial, is 
thus frustrated. 

F. T. H. 

November 9th. 




flDiscellaneous Botes. 



Portrait of Sir Frederick. — In the 
Hall at S. Michael's College, there is a full 
length portrait of Sir F. in his robes, as Pro- 
fessor of Music. It was presented by the 
Warden and Fellows of Radley College, 
early in 1857. The artist was Mr. W. H. 
Florio Hutchinson, once a pupil of Fuseli, 
in London, then a resident in India, after- 
wards Teacher of Drawing and Design, at 
Radley College. He died at Frome, Sel- 
wood, about the year 1879. 

Fine Oak Chair. — At the head of the 
" high table " in the Hall, there is a capacious 
and imposing chair with a high back ; Sir 
Frederick always occupied this seat, duly 
vested with cap and gown, using a Latin 
grace before and after each meal. 



70 



MEMORIALS OF THE REV. 



Dimensions of the Church. — Total 
length internally, no feet by 45 in breadth. 
The Transepts give a further projection of 
n feet on each side, by 19 broad. The 
interior has a wooden vaulting throughout. 
Height of external ridge, 70 feet. The 
orig inal design by — Woodyer, Esq. , Architect, 
included a Tower near the S.W. corner of 
the Church. This important feature would 
add greatly to the beauty of the group of 
buildings. 

The College is 144 feet in length, by 49 
in breadth. An imposing Domitory extends 
the whole length of the building, containing 
36 cubicles. 

The collection of Music will probably 
remain at S. Michael's until there are funds 
to build a place for it. 



Memorial. — The sum of ^140 has been 
raised for the Memorial at Hereford Cathe- 
dral, and upwards of ,£2,000 by the London 
Musical Committee towards the endowment 
of St. Michael's College. A statement of 
the Endowment Fund appeared in The 7Ymes 
on October 29th. The following communi- 
cation from Mr. Crispin explains the case so 
clearly that its insertion here may be desir- 
able : — 

THE OUSELEY MEMORIAL SCHEME. 

TO THE EDITOR OF THE "MORNING POST." 

Sir, — I have noticed the short paragraph in to- 
day's Morning Post commencing as I have headed 
this letter. I wish most earnestly to press upon all 
Sir Frederick Ouseley's friends, and every one who 
feels an interest in the noble church and institution 
which he founded and endowed at Tenbury, that the 
scheme is not a memorial scheme. The sole object 
of the appeal is to place the college in the same 
position in regard to the funds for its support as it 
enjoyed during the founder's lifetime. Over and 
above the endowment made at the beginning, now 
30 years ago, Sir Frederick Ouseley devoted all his 
other income, £2,000 a year, to the support of the 
college. This ,£2,000 a year was to a great extent 
income which died with him ; indeed, part of it was 
raised on mortgage. This mortgage must be paid oft 
by his executors, and the residue of his estate, which 
is bequeathed to the college, will not supply one half 
of the £2,000 which in his life he found necessary for 
the support of his college. It is to make up this 
deficiency that the effort described as a " memorial " 
scheme is being made. True it is that to put the 
college on a permanent footing will be not only a, 



but the most fitting memorial that could be raised to 
the founder's memory ; but, at the same time, let it 
be clearly understood that the endowment is the 
object, aud that the fully endowed college will be a 
most fitting memorial to the founder is merely an 
accessory. The accessory will of course follow the 
principal, but the principal is the endowment, and I 
entreat every one who feels an interest in the college, 
or who has either directly or indirectly derived 
benefit from its existence, and every one who knew 
the unselfish founder, to give largely. I write as an 
honorary fellow of the college and a friend of 40- 
years of the late founder. — Yours, &c, 

A. TREVOR CRISPIN. 
I, Ladbroke-gardens, September 23rd. 



Note for page 39. — The statement in the 
World about emolument requires explana- 
tion. The stipend of the Incumbent of St. 
Michael's is about ,£100. The stipend of 
the Warden should be .£300, but the present 
holder of that office, I am assured, does not 
touch any income from the funds of the 
College until better times come round. 




©utline of tbe lproceeotngs 

Hnnuallg at St. /DMcbael's College 

on tbe festival of St. /Ibfcbael 

ano ail Bngels. 



-W^K- 



8 a.m., Holy Communion. 
11 Morning Prayer, with orchestral service 
and sermon. 
2 Dinner in the Hall ; speeches. 
6 Evensong, music as in the morning, and 

sermon. 

8 Concert in the Hall, attended by a large 

number of neighbours, followed by 

supper for performers, Fellows and 

friends ; usually about 60 present. Sir 

F.'s grand piano was always used in 

the hall on these occasions. 

A special interest was this year attached to 

the Commemoration Services of this College, 

as being the first since the death of its 



SIR FREDERICK O USE LEY. 



munificent Founder. The 3rd of October was 
kept as the Commemoration Day, and the 
morning preacher was the Bishop-Designate 
of Corea, Rev. C. J. Corfe, late chaplain 
R.N., an Old boy and former Master of the 
College. Instead of the usual concert, an 
organ recital was given in the church after 
Evensong by Mr. Sinclair, organist of Truro 
Cathedral, and also an old St. Michael's Boy. 
There was a good gathering of the friends of 
the College and of the late Warden. Those 
who recognize in Sir Frederick's life work 
that the ancient spirit of self-sacrifice and 
devotion is still alive within the English 
Church, and those also who acknowledge the 
greatness of the debt which English Cathedral 
and Church music owes to him will learn 
with thankfulness that his work is being 
■carried on in the same spirit and on the 
same lines by the new Warden, Rev. J. 
Hampton, himself associated with the College 
since its foundation. The former pupils of 
St. Michael's are now filling responsible 
positions in the Church, the Army, the Navy, 
and many other departments of life. We 
believe that their early training in the worship 
of the Sanctuary has helped them to be not 
merely staunch churchmen, but therefore 
good citizens and loyal subjects. Many 
people knew Sir Frederick only as a singu- 
larly gifted musician. But to him music was 
an accessory, and not a sole aim of life. 
Perhaps it is scarcely realized as it ought to 
be, that an institution such as St. Michael's 
College, is of the greatest value to both our 
church and our country. — Church Times, 
October nth, 1889. 



£be Sutbor's Conducing 
mote. 

X>^t>< 



To all who have so readily responded to 
requests for information — specially to Mr. T. 
Lea Southgate, for his valuable abridgment 
of Congress and Association papers and his 
other productions ; to the executors, for the 
loan of valuable MSS.; to Mr. T. Jones, for 
the loan of a negative of the portrait ; to the 
authors who have granted permission to use 
their works; to the large and influential 
body of subscribers who have favoured him 
with their support — the author's best thanks 
are due. 

Much indulgence is asked for this little 
work, as it has been undertaken during 
illness and a period of great bodily weak- 
ness, the whole having been taken through 
the press while confined to his room. There 
has been no attempt to write a memoir, but 
materials have been brought together which 
may possibly assist a future biographer. 

It would be very pleasant to give much 
further information about St. Michael's 
College — which alone would be sufficient 
for a volume— but with such a beautiful 
church and buildings, and such a large and 
influential body of Honorary Fellows, it seems 
only reasonable to hope that this institution 
may be expanded and utilized in aid of some 
of the pressing needs of the Church, and 
that a bright and useful future is still in store 
for Sir Frederick Ouseley's noble founda- 
tion. 
Upton Bishop Vicarage, 
November 18, 1889. 




PRINTED BY W. HENRY ROBINSON, STEAM PRINTING WORKS, WALSALL. 



S, fllMcbael's College, Zenbmv. 

********** 

Weitor: 

THE LORD BISHOP OF HEREFORD. 

TKHarJ>en : 

REV. J. HAMPTON, M.A. 

1bea0 faster: 

REV. E. HINCHCLIFF, M.A. 

JBursar : 

W. NORRIS, ESQ. 

Organist : 

MR. ALLAN. PATTERSON. 

Ibonorarg afellows: 

Rev. H. Fyffe, M.A., S. Helen's College, Southsea. 

Very Rev. R. W. Norman, D.D., Rector and Dean of City and Diocese of Quebec. 

Rev. J. Rich, M.A., Vicar of Chippenham, Hon. Canon of Bristol. 

A. Trevor Crispin, Esq., of H.M. "Treasury."' 

E. G. Monk, Esq., M.D., Radley. 

Rev. T. Aysgough Smith, M.A., Vicar of Tenbury, and Prebendary of Hereford. 

Rev. W. M. Campion, D.D., Fellow of Queen's College, Cambridge, and Hon. Canon of Ely. 

Rev. T. L. Wheeler, M.A., Worcester. 

Rev. j. C. Hanbury, M.A., Wadham College, Oxford. 

Rev. J. E. Millard, D. D., Rector of Basingstoke, and Hon. Canon of Winchester. 

Rev. H. A. Cotton, M.A., Minor Canon of Westminster. 

Rev. F. M. Millard, M.A., Vicar of Otham, Kent. 

Rev. M. C. F. Morris, B.C.L., Vicar of Newton-on-Ouse, Yorkshire. 

Rev. V. K. CoorER, M.A., Minor Canon of Durham. 

Rev. J. S. Sidebotham, M.A., Vicar of Aymestrey, (Librarian.) 

Rev. H. C. Rogers, M,A., Rector of Wood Norton, Norfolk. 

Rev. E. C. Corfe, M.A., Hertford College, Oxford. 

Rev. J. H. Mee, M.D., Precentor of Chichester Cathedral. 

Rev. W. Rayson, M.A., Vicar of Lindridge. 

Rev. C. J. Corfe, D.D., Late Chaplain R.N., now Bishop of Corea. 



^ : ;V>^ s * ^ ^ ^ - s ^ * s ^%;^;x: 



