& *:*?& 







-. 






am 



5*V?^i 



,,!* 










''.$? 
W 



.>> 





University of California Berkeley 

SIDNEY HOWARD COLLECTION 

Gift of 
The Family of Sidney Howard 




x 









fliblishzd by J^Lfferne at ffutSible, Crcwn 



REMINISCENCES 

OF 

MICHAEL KELLY, 

OF THE 

KING'S THEATRE, 

AND 

THEATRE ROYAL DRURY LANE, 

INCLUDING 

A PERIOD OF NEARLY HALF A CENTURY ; 

WITH 

ORIGINAL ANECDOTES 

OF 

MANY DISTINGUISHED PERSONS, 

POLITICAL, LITERARY, AND MUSICAL. 
SECOND EDITION. 

IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. II. 

LONDON: 

HENRY COLBURN, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 

1826. 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY T. BRETTEIL, RL'PtRT STREET, HAYMARKET. 



CONTENTS 



OF 



THE SECOND VOLUME. 



FIRST performance of the " Siege of Belgrade." Italian 
Opera at the Pantheon. The Abbe Casti's opera, the 
" Grotta di Trofonio," with Salieri's music. Last 
night at old Drury Lane, previous to its being rebuilt. 
Little Theatre in the Haymarket. Mrs. Jordan at 
York. Musical performances at the Minster. Awful 
accompaniment to the inspired music of Handel. The 
Author's introduction to Elliston. Musical festival at 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Tate Wilkinson confused be- 
tween cookery and theatricals. . . . Page 1 10 

The Author's mistake in taking Sir Charles Turner for 
Hobler, the chorus-singer. The Drury Lane company 
at the King's Theatre. Kemble, Madame Mara, 
Mrs. Siddons, and Mrs. Jordan. Mr. Sheridan's 
dinner at the Piazza Coffee House. Successful 
revival of " Cymon." Kean's first appearance on the 
stage as Cupid. Destruction of the Pantheon Theatre 
by fire. Mr. Sheridan and the Irish fireman. Duke 
of Bedford Page 1021 



IV CONTENTS. 

The Author at Paris. Escape of the King and Queen 
of France. Invectives of Tom Paine and Governor 
Wall. Their Majesties enter the Thuilleries as pri- 
soners. Dignified deportment of the Queen. The 
Author and Dick England assume the national cock- 
ade, for the purpose of getting safely out of France. 
Narrow escape of the gambling Quaker. Provincial 
musical festivals. The musical romance, called " The 
Prisoner." First performance of " The Pirates." The 
theatre closed by Mr. Kemble, on the 24th of January, 
1793, from respect to the memory of Louis XVI. 

Page 2133 

Paesiello's comic opera, the " Zingari in Fiera," at the 
King's Theatre. Noverre's ballets. Didelot, Gardel, 
D'Egville, and Hillisberg. Noverre's irritability. 
First performance of " The Prize," for Storace's 
benefit. O'Keefe's " London Hermit." School of 
Garrick. Anecdotes of old Moody, and his confession. 
Mathews in disguise. The Author arrested for a debt 
of Mr. Sheridan's. Proofs of the latter's dexterity in 
financial contrivances. Anecdotes of King, the come- 
dian Page 33 50 

The " Beggar's Opera" prohibited in Dublin. The 
Author reads, with great pleasure, a panegyrical elegy 
upon himself, and an account of his death, in a news- 
paper at Manchester. Appalling spectacle at the Little 
Theatre in the Haymarjcet. Opening of the new 



CONTENTS. V 

Drury Lane Theatre, in 1794, with an oratorio. 
Kean's mischievous tricks, as one of the urchin-spirits 
in " Macbeth." The whole tribe of boys (including 
Kean) dismissed by Mr. Kemble. Lodoiska at Paris 
and Drury Lane. Mrs. Crouch's danger in that spec- 
tacle. The Author's wine-bills. . . Page 50 64 

Edinburgh. New way of emulating Garrick. The late 
Mr. Perry of the Chronicle. The Corris, Urbani, 
Stabilini, and Cecchi. Quarrel between Tate Wilkinson 
and his wife. Mr. Macready, of the Birmingham 
Theatre. Petits soupers at the house of Mrs. Ro- 
binson, the beautiful Perdita. Anecdotes of Baddely. 
His death, and legacy to the Performers of Drury 
Lane. Storace's opera of " The Cherokee." Haydn's 
and Pleyel's opinion of Mrs. Bland. Miss Wilson in 
Mandane. Madame Mara's great praise of Miss 
Povey of Drury Lane. Mara's failure in her concert, 
in her seventy-second year. . . . Page 64 73 

First performance of the " Wheel of Fortune." Kemble 
and Suett. Miss Mellon's first appearance. Death 
of Parsons. The " Iron Chest." Stephen Storace's 
death. Braham's introduction to the stage at Drury 
Lane. Banti. Duke of Queensberry's hospitality 
to the French nobility. Anecdotes of his Grace. 
Viotti and his revolutionary companions. Affecting 
story and tragical end of the Duke D'Aiguillon. 
Bensley, the actor. Elliston's debut in London. 

AS 



VI CONTENTS. 

Death of Dodd. Anacreontic Society at the Crown 
and Anchor. r . Page 73 90 

The Author apprehended as a French spy at Dover. 
Colonel North. Eccentric Earl of Howth. John 
Kemble turning methodist preacher to " raise the 
wind." Lord Howth's receipt to cure a sore throat. 
Dr. Jenner's Bacchanalian song. The Author's in- 
troduction to Mr. Coutts. Audience with His Royal 
Highness the Prince of Wales, at the Pavilion, 
Brighton. Specimen of French honesty in the prison 
at Plymouth. Lord Cork and Sir Charles Bampfylde. 

Page 90103 

Fracas at Plymouth Dock. The Author and Mrs. 
Crouch engaged by Miss Foote's father at the Ply- 
mouth Theatre. Rauzzini's private musical parties 
at Bath. Anecdotes of that musician. Introduction 
to Jackson of Exeter. French dancer in a barn at 
Penzance. Emery, the late comedian, leading the 
band at Plymouth. Dowton's debut on the London 
stage. Mr. Sheridan's opinion of that actor. Musical 
taste of Mrs. Sheridan. Affecting anecdote of Miss 
Maria Linley. Grief of Mr. Sheridan at the death of 
his wife. Prince Hoare's musical interlude. Miss 
Farren. Bannister and the Author visit Mr. Cum- 
berland, at Tunbridge Wells. The Duchess of 
Leinster calumniated by her servants. Anecdotes of 
the irritability of Cumberland. Origin of Sheridan's 



CONTENTS. Vll 

" Sir Fretful Plagiary." A new dish. First night of the 
" Castle Spectre." Page 103126 

Anecdotes of Monk Lewis. His death attributed to 
poison. Ballad, composed at the express command of 
his present Majesty. First Performance of " Blue 
Beard," at Drury Lane. The Author's music. Kean, 
as the little Blue Beard. Death of John Palmer. 
Mr. Kemble, as the Monk. Death of the veteran 
Cramer. Extraordinary anecdote respecting the first 
performance of " Pizarro." Kemble's heroism in 
defence of Miss Phillips, afterwards Mrs. Crouch. 
" Of Age To-Morrow." Miss De Camp, and " No, 
my Love, no." Page 126 151 

Mazzanti, the Italian soprano, at the performance of the 
" Beggar's Opera Travestied." Madame Bolla. 
Attempt on the life of George the Third, in Drury 
Lane Theatre. Miss Baillie's " De Montfort." 
Revival of Shakspeare's " King John." Charles Fox 
and Mrs. Siddons prophesy the future celebrity of 
Miss Kelly. " Deaf .and Dumb." Introduction to 
Thomas Moore, the poet. His afterpiece, " The 
Gipsey Prince." The Author opens a music-shop in 
Pall Mall. " Urania." The Honourable William 
Spencer. Mrs. Billington's return to England. Her 
performance at both Theatres, in " Mandane." 

Page 1-51168 



Vlll CONTEXTS. 

Mrs. Billington's dismay at the unexpected appearance 
of Monsieur de Felican, her husband. Sheridan's 
theatrical embarrassments. The Lord Chancellor. 
Paris, in 1802. Buonaparte reviewing his troops. 
Talma, in Orestes. Different receptions of Charles 
Fox and Buonaparte, at the Theatre Francois. First 
Consul's grand levee at the Thuilleries. Buonaparte's 
rudeness to Lord Guilford, and munificence to 
Paesiello. Theatre Feydeau. Origin of " Love 
laughs at Locksmiths." Ellivien's judgment of the 
English singers. The celebrated Winter engaged 
as composer for the King's Theatre. Revival of 
" Midas," at Drury Lane. Rousseau, the composer 
of the air, " Pray, Goody." . . Page 168 182 

Difficulty of eating on the stage. Mathews's first 
appearance in London at the Haymarket. Miss 
Duncan and Mrs. Billington in the opera of Arta- 
xerxes. English Bank Notes in Scotland. Mrs. Scott 
Waring. First acquaintance with Listen at Newcastle. 
His debut in London. Mrs. Billington as prima 
donna at the Opera. Winter's Calypso. Cinderella at 
Drury Lane. The Author and the Commissioners 
of Income Tax. Home Tooke. The musical after- 
piece of " The Caravan." Dignum and the dog. 

Page 182192 

The King's Theatre opened by Mr. Francis Goold. 
3 



CONTENTS. IX 

Grassini in " La Virgine del Sole." Origin of the 
grand chorus in that opera. Winter's chef-d'oeuvre, 
" II Ratto di Proserpina." The Author's ruse de 
guerre with Madame Grassini. Mrs. St. Leger, in 
" Aggression." Irish support at the Theatre on 
the first night of the " Hunter of the Alps." Col- 
man's " Gay Deceivers." Illness of Mrs. Crouch. 

Page 192202 

Tobin's " Honey Moon." Anecdotes of that Author. 
Sheridan's foibles imitated by Richardson, one of the 
proprietors of Drury Lane Theatre. Origin of 
Colman's farce, " We Fly by Night." " Youth, Love, 
and Folly." Mrs. Billington, Viganoni, and Braham, 
in Winter's " L* Amore Fraterno." The grand ballet 
of " Achilles." Grassini's fine tragic acting in the 
" Orazj." Riot at the Opera House. Death of Mrs. 
Crouch at Brighton Page 202210 

Miss De Camp in the " Forty Thieves." First night 
of " Adrian and Orrila" at Covent Garden. Cooke 
intoxicated. Dispute between Kemble and Harris. 
Anecdotes of Cooke. Naldi. Madame Catalani's 
debut in " La Semiramide." Siboni. Parisot. Mr. 
Sheridan corrects the printing of the " Duenna," 
thirty-two years after its publication ! Other instances 
of his negligence. Writes articles against himself in 
Woodfall's paper. Neglects his appointment with 
the Prince. His promise to their late Majesties. 



X CONTENTS. 

His dinner to the Prince of Wales. Sunday cheese- 
hunting Page 210 229 

Madame Catalani dancing in a kitchen at Bangor, to the 
music of an old blind harper. T. Cooke's musical 
dexterity. Dinner at Mr. Curran's. Irish anecdotes. 
Cumberland's " Jew of Mogadore." The Board of 
Management. Miss Pope and Madame Storace leave 
the stage. Death of the latter. Superstition of Mr. 
Sheridan. His son Tom. Literary parties at the 
Author's house. Italian opera at Dublin. The 
eccentric O'Reilly. Logier, the musician. Irish 
hunting Page 229248 

Covent Garden Theatre burnt to the ground. The Duke 
of Northumberland's munificence to Mr. Kemble. 
Drury Lane Theatre destroyed by fire. Mr. She- 
ridan's conduct on that occasion. The Duke of 
Norfolk's owls. Tom Sheridan and his father. 
Plaintive ballad by the latter. Lord Eardley. Ama- 
teur Theatricals at Wroxton Abbey. Song by Mr. 
Maddocks. Anecdote of the late Lady Hamilton. 

Page 248269 

The Author's last appearance on the stage. His bank- 
ruptcy. Mrs. Siddons's farewell to the stage. Open- 
ing of new Drury Lane Theatre. The Committee. 
Masonic Festival. Coleridge's " Remorse." Sequel 
to the " Beggar's Opera." Billy-in-the-Bowl, and the 



CONTENTS. XI 

Welch girl. The Author's danger on the beach at 
Bangor. " Megin ho," in die ferry before Conway 
Castle. Invitation to Lord Kirkwall's. The Author's 
reception at Wroxton by Lord Guilford. 

Page 269282 

Kean's first appearance as a tragedian in " Shylock." 
Unprecedented success of his " Richard." Lord 
Byron's and Mr. Sheridan's opinion of that actor. 
Kean's generosity to a poor brother-performer at 
Brighton. Journey with Bannister to Paris. The 
Author and the musical coachman. Recollections of 
Sterne at Montreuil. Abbeville. French ballad- 
singing Page 282 290 

Arrival at Paris. The elder Vestris, Joly, Madame Bel- 
mont, Brunet, and Potier. Bannister introduced to 
Denon. Curran's opinion of Paris. Grassini and Pae'r. 
Water-works of Marly. Anecdotes of Buonaparte. 
Parisian lady's opinion of London. Rouen. The 
peasants of Normandy. Brighton. Mathews and the 
Nabob. The Author introduces Harley to the London 
stage. Splendid performance of " Macbeth" at Drury 
Lane. Miss O'Neill's first appearance in London. 
Anecdotes of that lady. Miss Mellon's farewell to 
the stage, in 1815. Mrs. Mountain's retirement from 
public life. Bannister's last appearance. Anecdotes 
of that excellent comedian and his friend Wroughton. 
Miss Kelly shot at from the Pit of Drury Lane 



Ill CONTENTS. 

Theatre. Mrs. Siddons's re-appearance on the 
stage Page 290 305 

Death of Sheridan. His funeral. Refutation of the 
reports that Mr. Sheridan was left destitute in his 
latter moments. Sketch of the character of that 
great man, and numerous hitherto unpublished Anec- 
dotes concerning him Page 305 323 

List of sixty-two dramatic Pieces, for which Kelly com- 
posed the Music. Commutation of his claim upon 
Drury Lane Theatre. Mr. Elliston's honourable 
fulfilment of the contract of his predecessors with 
Kelly. Alacrity of the Performers of both Houses, 
in appearing for the Author's annual Benefit, at the 
King's Theatre. Gracious and munificent Patronage 
of the Author by King George the Fourth. His 
Majesty's condescension and affability to poor little 
Julia. " God save the King." . Page 323 333 



APPENDIX, containing a history of the King's Theatre, 
or Italian Opera House, from its first establishment 
to the present time Page 335 367 



REMINISCENCES 



OF 



MICHAEL KELLY, 



ON January the 1st, 1791, was produced at 
Drury Lane, the opera of " The Siege of 
Belgrade." The drama was written by Cobb, 
the music by Storace. The under-plot of this 
opera was taken from the Italian piece of " La 
Cosa Kara," which had been originally taken 
from a Spanish drama. There was a good deal 
of beautiful original music in it, by Storace, 
who, with his great taste and knowledge of 
effect, had also selected some from Martini. The 
opera was received with great applause, and 
was performed the first season sixty nights to 
overflowing houses. The acting of Mrs. Crouch, 
in the "Letter Duet," with the Seraskier, was 

VOL. II. B 



2 REMINISCENCES OF 

beyond all praise, and Palmer's bye-play was 
excellent. One night, during the performance, 
an accident occurred which gave me great uneasi- 
ness : in the battle scene, between Palmer and 
myself, when fighting with scimetars, he left his 
head totally unguarded, and received so severe a 
blow in the forehead, that the blood spouted 
all over the stage; luckily, the wound was not 
sufficiently serious to confine him, although he was 
obliged to wear a black patch on his forehead for a 
length of time. In justice to poor Palmer, I must 
say he bore his misfortune with the greatest good 
humour. 

On the 17th of February, the Italian Opera 
company removed to the Pantheon in Oxford 
Street, which was converted into a theatre. I 
went the first night: the house was very small, 
and the stage particularly so; but the company 
was extremely good. For the serious opera, the 
celebrated Pachierotti, who is just dead, was 
engaged as first soprano ; the tenor, Lazzerini ; 
the prima donna, Madame Mara. " L' Ararida," 
was the serious opera. For the comic opera, 
they had Signors Cipriani, Morelli, Leperini, 
and Signora Cassentini, who afterwards married 
Signor Bergi, then stage manager for the 
Committee, which consisted of the Duke of 
Bedford, Lord Salisbury, and Mr. William 
Sheldon. 



MICHAEL KELLF. 3 

This season, the Abbe Casti's " Grotta di 
Trofonio 11 was translated, or rather adapted for 
the English stage, under the title of " The Cave of 
Trophonius," by Prince Hoare, and liberally given 
by the author to Mrs. Crouch for her benefit. 
Storace furnished the music, chiefly selected from 
the original composer, Salieri ; but, though skil- 
fully dramatized, and the whole strength of the 
Drury operatic company in it, it did not meet with 
the reception which I think it deserved. 

On the 4th of June, the Old Drury Lane 
closed for ever, with the comedy of " The Coun- 
try Girl, 11 and "No Song, no Supper/ 1 At the 
end of the play, Palmer came forward, and 
thus addressed the audience: " Ladies and 
Gentlemen, on the part of the proprietors, 
manager, and performers, I have to express their 
gratitude for the unprecedented support with 
which you have favoured them during the past 
season ; when next we have the honour to appear 
before you on this spot, we trust it , will be in 
a theatre better calculated for your accommodation, 
more deserving Royal countenance, and the pa- 
tronage of this great metropolis." 

There seemed to me so much whimsicality in 
the following newspaper paragraph, which I took 
a copy of at the time, that I think it will not 



4 REMINISCENCES OF 

be unacceptable to my readers : the date is 
June 6th, 1791 : 

" Died, on Saturday night, of a gradual 
decay, in the hundred and seventeenth year 
of her age, old Madame Drury, who lived in 
six reigns, and saw many generations pass in 
review before her. She remembered Betterton in 
age, lived in intimacy with Wilks, Booth, and 
Gibber, and knew old Macklin when he was a 
stripling; her hospitality exceeded that of the 
English character, even in its earliest days of fes- 
tivity, having almost through the whole of her 
life entertained from one to two thousand per- 
sons of both sexes six nights out of seven in 
the week ; she was an excellent poetess, could be 
gay and grave by turns, and yet sometimes 
catching disorder from intrusive guests, could be 
dull enough in all conscience ; her memory was 
excellent, and her singing kept in such a gradual 
state of improvement, that it was allowed, her 
voice was better the three or four last years of 
her life than when she was in her prime. At 
the latter end of the last century, she had a rout 
of near two thousand people at her house the very 
night of her death; and the old lady felt herself 
in such spirits, that she said she would give them 
no supper without a song, which being complied 
with, she fell gently back in her chair, and expired 



MICHAEL KELLr. 5 

without a groan. Dr. Palmer, one of her family 
physicians, attended her in her last moments, and 
announced her dissolution to the company." 

The little theatre in the Haymarket opened 
on June 25th, and brought out u The Kentish 
Barons,"" a play in three acts, interspersed with 
music; the drama by the Honourable Francis 
North, second son of Lord North, the prime 
minister ; the airs were composed by Miss Monk, 
a dilettante, and very dilettante-like music it was. 
The language was bold and poetical, and written 
in elegant blank verse ; but, owing to the infe- 
riority of the music, it did not meet with unequi- 
vocal success. On the first night, I went behind 
the scenes, and was introduced to its witty author, 
who honoured me with the most marked friendship 
and regard during the remainder of his life. I 
was so much pleased with the poetry of one of the 
songs, that I requested a copy of it from the noble 
author, to which I composed the music, and often 
sang it to him and the kind, good Countess of 
Guilford, both now no more. 

SONG. Written by Francis, Earl of Guilford. 
I. 

No, Clifford, no, for six long years 
I felt a lover's hopes and fears; 
The raging frenzy now is past, 
Peace dawns upon my heart at last. 



D REMINISCENCES OF 

II. 

Think not that I'd inconstant prove r 
Where once I vow'd eternal love ; 
My heart had still felt all its flame, 
Had beauteous Laura felt the same. 

HI. 

Doom'd absence-lingering pangs to try, 
I felt a transport in each sigh ; 
My lot was happy, though severe, 
And pleasure mingled in each tear. 

IV. 

In vain I tried each honest art 
To fix her foolish fickle heart ; 
But since she's gone, e'en let her go ; 
I'll sigh no more, no, Clifford, no. 

Mrs. Crouch, Madame Mara, and Mr. Har- 
rison, were engaged with me in the August of this 
year, for the second summer assize week at York 
cathedral: we arrived there the 8th of August, 
and went to the theatre, to see Mrs. Jordan 
in the " Trip to Scarborough, 11 and " The Devil 
to Pay ;" and, the devil to pay there was with 
poor Wilkinson : Mrs. Jordan and he could not 
agree ; she thought herself slighted by the audi- 
ence; and, sans ceremonie, before she had gone 
through half her nights, quitted York, leaving 
Tate's fair side all unguarded. Mr. and Mrs, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 7 

John Kemble were on a visit to their old friend, 
Mr. Wilson, then Lord Mayor of York, with whom 
I dined twice, when Kemble and Tate were of the 
party. The city of York was crammed with 
visitors to attend the festival. The performances 
at the Minster for three mornings, gave universal 
satisfaction to crowded audiences : Madame Mara, 
Mrs. Crouch, and Harrison were in fine song. The 
performances were, the " Messiah," and two grand 
selections from the most approved works of Handel. 
There were concerts given in the evenings, at the 
great assembly rooms. 

One of the most awful accompaniments to the 
inspired music of Handel, was furnished by the 
hand of Nature. 

On Monday night, the 15th of August, 1791, 
during the grand chorus, "He gave them hail- 
stones for rain," a storm, almost unparalleled 
in the memory of man, burst in all its violence 
over the rooms ; the flashes of lightning, and the 
loud peals of thunder, were magnificently awful. 
The great room, almost crowded to suffocation, 
being surrounded with windows, which were opened 
to admit what little air there was, appeared full of 
blue flame : never before or since did I behold such 
a tremendous night,-i-such bursts of Heaven's 
artillery, and such sheets of fire, combined with the 



8 REMINISCENCES OF 

sacred words and the majestic music of the mighty 
master, were altogether appalling and magnificent. 

It was during our stay this time at York, that 
Mrs. Crouch and I had the pleasure of first seeing 
my worthy friend Elliston : he played Carlos with 
great judgment and feeling, considering his youth, 
and considering moreover that Kemble was the 
Zanga. He was particularly impressive in the 
speech of 

" Hope, thou hast told me lies from day to day, 
For more than twenty years." 

I remember Mrs. Crouch said to me, " Depend 
upon it that young man will be an excellent actor ;" 
and her prophecy has been amply fulfilled. 

From York we were engaged to go to Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne, for a grand musical festival, which was 
fixed for the week following the assize week ; we 
had in the interim a few days to spare, and Wil- 
kinson engaged Mrs. Crouch and myself to play at 
the theatre on the Monday and Tuesday in the 
race week, August the 25th and 26th, which 
allowed us full time to get to the Newcastle 
Oratorio. Tate called upon us, and we agreed to 
perform " Lionel and Clarissa," " Inkle and 
Yarico," and Henry and Louisa in the " Deserter/' 
which we did to crowded houses. We were to> 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



return from Newcastle to York, and take our 
benefit on the Thursday after the races. I cannot 
conscientiously say, that my worthy Tate had any 
opinion whatever of my musical abilities, but he 
took it into his head that my skill in the culinary 
art was great. He used to call me the Harmonious 
Apicius ; indeed, we hardly ever discussed any sub- 
jects but those of cooking and eating ; he had a small 
appetite, but was a great epicure. At one time, 
when I was making an agreement with him, I 
wanted twenty guineas more than he was willing to 
give ; at length he said, " Well, young Apicius, 
twenty guineas shall not part us ; you shall have it 
your own way ; but, confess now, honestly, didn't 
you think the ducks were over-roasted yesterday at 
my Lord Mayor's. 1 " 

Wilkinson was certainly one of the most eccen- 
tric men I ever met with ; one of his whims wa?, 
to hide chocolate drops and other sweetmeats in 
different holes and corners of his house, his great 
pleasure consisting in finding them, as if by acci- 
dent, some days after. When he had taken a few 
glasses of old Madeira, of which he was very fond, 
he would mix his conversation about theatricals 
and eatables together, in a manner at once ludicrous 
and incomprehensible. I was sitting with him one 
night, in high spirits, after supper, and we spoke 
of Barry, the actor : " Sir, 1 ' said he, " Barry, Sir, 
B 5 



10 REMINISCENCES OF 

was as much superior to Garrick in Romeo, as 
York Minster is to a Methodist chapel, not but I 
think, that if lobster sauce is not well made, a 
turbot isn't eatable, let it be ever so firm. Then 
there's that Miss Reynolds ; why she, Sir, fancies 
herself a singer, but she is quite a squalini, Sir ! a 
nuisance, Sir ! going about my house the whole of 
the day, roaring out, " The Soldier tired of War's 
alarms," ah ! she has tired me, and alarmed the 
whole neighbourhood ; not but when rabbits are 
young and tender, they are very nice eating. There 
was Mrs. Barry, for example; Mrs. Barry was 
very fine and very majestic in Zenobia ; Barry, in 
the same play, was very good ; not but that the 
wild rabbits are better than tame ones. Though 
Mrs. Barry was so great in her day, yet Mrs. 
Siddons stewed and smothered with onions, either 
of them are delicious. Mrs. Pope was admirable in 
Queen Elizabeth a man I had here, made a very 
good Oronooko ; not but I would always advise 
you to have a calf s head dressed with the skin on, 
but you must always bespeak it of the butcher 
yourself ; though the last bespeak of Lord Scarbo- 
rough did nothing for me, nothing at all ; the house 
was one of the worst of the whole season ; with 
bacon and greens, -not twenty pounds altogether, 
with parsley and butter ;" and on he went talking, 
until he talked himself asleep, for which I did offer 



MICHAEL KELLY. 11 

my thanks to Somnus, with all my soul ; yet when 
clear of these unaccountable reveries, he was an 
amusing companion. 

I have heard my friend King assert, that 
such was the power of Wilkinson's mimicry, that 
ugly as he was, he could make his face resemble 
that of Mrs. Woffington, who was a beauty of 
her time. I once requested him to make Mrs. 
Woffington's face for me, which he good-naturedly 
did, and to my utter astonishment, really made 
a handsome one. He was very fond of talking of 
his Peg, as he called Mrs. Woffington, and avowed 
that, in his younger days, he was passionately in love 
with her. 

Tate Wilkinson was not singular in mixing with 
whatever subject he was talking about, that of 
eating. I knew a countryman of mine, a captain in 
the Irish brigade, whose constant habit was always 
to bring in something or other about eatables. A 
gentleman praising the Bay of Dublin, and its simi- 
litude to the Bay of Naples, " Dublin Bay, Sir," 
said my countryman, " is far and away finer than 
the Bay of Naples ; for what on earth can be supe- 
rior to a Dublin Bay herring ?" 

" I am told,"" said the gentleman, " that the Irish 
brigade, in the Empress Maria Theresa's service, 
are a fine set of men. 1 * 

" You may say that, Sir," said my friend, " and 



1 REMINISCENCES OF 

she has also in her dominions the finest beef and 
mutton I ever tasted any where." 

One winter there was a severe frost in Dublin, 
and such a scarcity of coals, thai hardly any were 
to be got for love or money ; a gentleman was 
lamenting the situation of the poorer orders from 
the severity of the weather. 

" It's very true, they are much to be pitied, 
poor devils," said the captain ; " and the cold is 
very shocking, but it will bring in the curlews." 

There is an evident similarity in the turn of the 
Irish captain's mind to that of Tate Wilkinson. 

Our time for departure, however, arrived; and 
Mrs. Crouch, her maid, and I, left York at five 
o'clock in the morning for Newcastle, and got to 
Durham to a late dinner : while it was preparing, 
I amused myself by looking about me, and in the 
hall of the inn I saw a large bill posted, announcing 
the performances of the Newcastle festival ; reading 
which, with great attention, I perceived a man, 
whom I recognised as Mr. Hobler, the chorus 
singer, who sang at the Abbey, the King's Concert, 
and the Academy of Ancient Music. The bill 
announced an uncommon number of choruses, and 
I remarked upon the fact to the chorister. " Why," 
said I, familiarly, concluding, that as I knew Hobler, 
Hobler must know me, u You will have warm 
work, my master, with all these choruses." 



MICHAEL KELLY. 13 

" Not I," said the singer; " the more choruses 
there are, the better I am pleased ; I never tire of 
them." 

" Why," said I, " that is strange, too, consi- 
dering how much you have had of them in your 
time/ 1 

" Not at all, I assure you," said Hobler ; " I 
have for many years regularly attended the ancient 
concerts and music meetings, I have never had 
too much of Handel's choruses yet." 

" Egad," said I, " you are quite afanatico per 
la musica. And pray, now, to which of Handel's 
choruses do you give the preference ?" 

" Why, my dear Mr. Kelly," said Hobler, I 
cannot decide ; but I candidly tell you what Cicero 
said, when he was asked which of the orations of 
Demosthenes he liked the best, he answered the 
longest ; so say I of Handel's choruses." 

" Bravo," said I ; " you are quite a learned 
Theban." 

" Not much of that either," said he ; " but I 
am never disinclined to avow an opinion of what 
pleases me." 

Just at this moment, the waiter came to announce 
dinner, and I asked the enthusiastic chorister if he 
would take a glass of any thing." 

" No, thank you," said he, " I have had my 
wine and my tea ; I am an earlier man than you." 

" Pray," said I, " how did you travel here ?" 



REMINISCENCES OF 

" I came down in my carriage," replied Hobler. 

" The devil you did," cried I. 

" Yes," said he ; "I always do." 

The landlord of the inn at this juncture made 
his appearance, and bowing respectfully to Hobler, 
told him that his carriage was at the door. " Good 
day, Mr. Kelly," said Hobler ; " I hope we shall 
meet at Newcastle ;" and away he went. 

While we were at dinner, the landlord came into 
the room, and I asked him if the chorus singer to 
whom I had been speaking in the hall was an old 
customer of his. 

" What, Sir, the gentleman you were speaking 
to ?" said the landlord, " he is no chorus singer, 
Sir ; he is one of the oldest baronets in England, 
and has one of the finest places in Yorkshire ; nor 
is there a more noble or liberal gentleman on the 
face of the earth than Sir Charles." 

" Sir Charles," exclaimed I ; " What, is Hobler 
turned baronet ?" 

" Hobler ?" said my host, " why that, Sir, is 
Sir Charles Turner." 

It is impossible to describe how vexed I felt at 
the gross mistake I had made, but it was too late to 
remedy it. I solemnly assured the landlord that 
Sir Charles Turner and Hobler the chorus singer 
were so like one another, that they were undis- 
tinguishable apart. 

Sometime after this unpleasant equivoque, I met 



MICHAEL KELLY. 15 

Sir Charles at Lord Dudley's, and made him every 
apology in my power. The worthy baronet laughed 
heartily, and told me that he mentioned the circum- 
stance wherever he had an opportunity, as a capital 
joke. The next Christmas he sent me a fine large 
Yorkshire pye. His son, who succeeded to his 
title and estates, continued my friend, to the day of 
his death ; and many times and oft, when I have 
dined with him, or met him at Lord Mexborough's 
and elsewhere, have we talked of my having taken 
his father for a chorus singer. 

The Newcastle festival was very productive, and 
the oratorios in the church in the morning (three), 
and three concerts, were attended by all the people 
of Newcastle and its vicinity. We went to see all 
that was curious, and were received with much 
hospitality. We returned to York, on Wednesday, 
the 1st of September, and had for our benefit, " The 
Haunted Tower,"" and " Richard Cceur de Lion."" 
The house overflowed. The next day I dined with 
my friend Tate, who gave me a calf 's head, with the 
skin on it, admirably cooked by Mrs. Wilkinson ; 
and the day after, we set off for London. 

The King's Theatre being now finished, the 
Drury Lane company were transplanted there, 
pro tempore, until Drury Lane was ready for their 
reception. On the 22nd of September it opened, 
under John Kemble's management, with a prelude 



16 REMINISCENCES OF 

written by Cobb, for the occasion, called " Poor Old 
Drury," u The Haunted Tower," and " The 
Pannel;" the prices were raised, the boxes to six 
shillings, and the pit to three and sixpence. The 
doors were not opened at the hour announced in 
the bills of the day ; the crowd was immense, and 
when they entered the house, they could not find 
their way to the different places; all was hurry, 
bustle, and confusion. The prelude began with 
Palmer and Parsons, who attempted to address the 
infuriated audience in vain; they were obliged to 
retire; the manager was called for, and Kemble 
came forward ; a paper was given to him from the 
pit, stating, that the cause of their disapprobation 
was the delay in opening the doors, and the great 
inconvenience of the passages. Kemble stood the 
fire well, and assured them, those inconveniences 
should be remedied on the next evening's per- 
formances. 

The storm then ceased; the handing up the 
paper (which was done by a friend of the manage- 
ment) was a lucky ruse, anil did great credit to the 
projector, General John Kemble himself. The 
prelude contained some comic points, alluding to 
the size of the Opera House, compared with Old 
Drury, and some beautiful scenery, particularly 
Mount Parnassus, by Marinari. 

" The Haunted Tower" followed: I had to 



MICHAEL KELLY. 17 

sing the first song. I was in good voice, and it 
filled the theatre well, which was by far the best 
for sound I ever sang at, not even excepting St. 
Carlos, at Naples. All the performers were wel- 
comed with applause, and Mrs. Jordan, in the 
afterpiece of " The Pannel," came in for a great 
share of it. Madame Mara was prevailed upon to 
perform for a few nights, and Artaxerxes was got 
up for her in great style. Kemble at this time had 
to fulfil an engagement which he had previously 
made at Newcastle. Mrs. Siddons and Mrs. Jordan 
were also going away, and Signora Storace was 
confined with severe illness ; all this crippled the 
theatre very much. Mr. Sheridan gave a dinner at 
the Piazza Coffee House to Mr. Holland, the 
architect of New Drury, and a number of his 
friends were present on the occasion; amongst 
others invited, Mr. Kemble, Storace, and myself. 
I happened to be placed near Mr. Sheridan, who 
at that time knew very little of me except my being 
one of his performers ; in the course of the evening, 
he was lamenting to me, the situation the theatre 
was placed in by the illness and absence of some of 
its leading performers, and wished me to suggest 
what operatic piece could be got up without them. 
After a little thought, I proposed to him to get up 
" Cymon," which could be done without any of 
the absent performers. Mr. Sheridan replied* 



18 REMINISCENCES OF 

" Cymon, my good Sir, would not bring sixpence 
to the treasury." 

" Granted, Sir,"" said I, " Cymon as it now 
stands certainly might not; but my reason for 
proposing it, is, that I saw at Naples an opera, 
at the end of which, was a grand procession and 
tournament, triumphal cars, drawn by horses, giants, 
dwarfs, leopards, lions, and tigers, which was emi- 
nently successful ; and it is my opinion, that Cymon 
might be made a vehicle for the introduction of a 
similar spectacle. I recollect all the spectacle part 
as done at Naples ; and I think, with the novelty of 
your present theatre, and the manner in which the 
piece can be cast, Cymon would bring a mint of 
money to the house." 

After a moment's reflection, he said he thought 
it would, that he felt obliged to me for the 
suggestion, and that he would give directions to 
have it brought forward with all possible speed. 
The evening was spent with great good humour ; 
my friend, Jack Bannister, contributed to its hilarity, 
by giving us excellent imitations of several of the 
performers of both theatres. At the conclusion, we 
adjourned to another room to take coffee ; as 
Kemble was walking somewhat majestically towards 
the door, and Jack Bannister getting up to go after 
him, I hallooed out, " Bannister, follow that lord, 
but see you mock him not," as Bannister, a moment 



MICHAEL KELLY. 19 

before, had been mocking the actors ; the quotation 
was thought rather apt, and produced much 
laughter. 

Mr. Sheridan told Storace that night, that he 
was very much pleased with me, and desired him 
to bring me the Sunday following to dine with him 
in Bruton Street; he did so, and surprising to 
relate, Mr. Sheridan was at home to receive us. I 
spent a delightful day; and, after that, to the 
lamented day of that great man's death, I had the 
happiness to enjoy his confidence and society. 
Great preparations were made to prepare Cymon ; 
no expense was spared ; and the piece was pro- 
duced with all splendour and magnificence. 

There was some new music introduced by 
Stephen Storace and others ; the scenery was beau- 
tiful, and the procession magnificent ; generally 
speaking, it was admirably performed. 

The car, in which were Sylvia and Cymon, was 
drawn by two beautiful horses ; and at my feet, as 
Cymon, lay a beautiful Cupid. Before the piece 
was brought out, I had a number of children 
brought to me, that I might choose a Cupid. One 
struck me, with a fine pair of black eyes, who 
seemed by his looks and little gestures to be most 
anxious to be chosen as the representative of the 
God of Love ; I chose him, and little then did I 
imagine that my little Cupid would eventually 



20 REMINISCENCES OF 

become a greai actor ; the then little urchin, was 
neither more nor less than Edmund Kean. He has 
often told me, that he ever after this period felt a 
regard for me, from the circumstance of my having 
preferred him to the other children. I consider my 
having been the means of introducing this great 
genius to the stage, one of my most pleasurable 
recollections. 

It was in this year that Mr. and Mrs. Crouch 
separated by mutual consent, he never appreciating 
the gem which he possessed. 

On the 14th of January, 1792, the Pantheon 
theatre was burned. Mr. Sheridan was with me 
on that day ; I went with him into Oxford Street, 
to view the cpnflagration. While Mr. Sheridan 
was observing how very high the flames were, he 
said, " Is it possible to extinguish the flames ?" An 
Irish fireman was close to us, and who heard him 
make the observation, said, " For the love of Hea- 
ven, Mr. Sheridan, don't make yourself uneasy, 
Sir ; by the Powers, it will soon be down ; sure 
enough, they won't have another drop of water in 
five minutes. 1 ' Pat said this in the natural warmth 
of heart, for he imagined that the burning of the 
Pantheon theatre must have been gratifying to Mr. 
Sheridan, as the proprietor of Drury Lane. 

A part of Mr. Sheridan's conduct, relative to the 
Opera company at the Pantheon, I was witness to ; 



MICHAEL KELLY. 21 

and thought it reflected great credit on him. The 
noble directors of that theatre wished to get a patent 
for Italian operas at the Pantheon ; they opened 
it in the year 1791 with a splendid serious comic 
opera, and grand ballets, but they found the stage 
so contracted, that it was hardly possible to produce 
any thing like spectacle. 

At the back of the Pantheon stage there was a 
large piece of ground which went as far back as 
Marlborough Street, which, with a house adjoining 
it, belonged to a Mr. Thompson. The noble 
directors of the Pantheon offered to give a large 
sum for the purchase of the ground, which would 
have enabled them to increase their stage. 

Mr. Thompson, whose property it was, had been 
an old and faithful servant in Dublin to Mr. 
Thomas Sheridan, the father of Mr. Richard 
Brinsley Sheridan ; and when Mr. Sheridan was in 
office in Mr. Fox^s administration, he procured 
Thompson a place in one of the public offices, and 
also made him stage property-man of Drury Lane 
Theatre. The Duke of Bedford wrote a letter, 
which I have seen, to Mr. Sheridan, to request of 
him to compel Thompson to sell the piece of ground 
they wanted, without which, they could not have 
an efficient stage. Sheridan replied to his Grace, 
(the letter was sent from my house,) " That he was 
sorry he could not grant his request, as the carrying 



REMINISCENCES OF 

on Italian operas at the Pantheon was most unjust 
and unfair towards the claimants on the Opera 
House in the Haymarket, as well as to Mr. Taylor, 
the chief proprietor, who was making every effort 
to rebuild it ; and that, so far from aiding it, he 
would do every thing in his power to counteract 
it." He immediately saw Thompson, and made a 
point with him, not to accept of any proposals from 
the Pantheon, which Thompson conceded, and so 
ended the business. 

In the summer of 1792 I went to Paris to see 
what I could pick up in the way of dramatic novelty 
for Drury Lane ; and a most interesting period it 
certainly was, and not to be forgotten by those who 
were there. 

I found my old friends and comrades still at the 
Italian Opera at the Theatre Feydeau ; there also 
I fell in with my worthy countrymen, Colonel 
Stark Macarthy, and Captain Fagan; the latter 
possessed a vast portion of the ready wit of his 
country. I was walking with him one day in the 
Place Vendome, in company with a French officer ; 
and we stopped to admire the fine piece of sculpture 
which then stood there, representing the figure of 
Victory, holding a laurel crown of victory over the 
head of Louis XIV. The French officer was 
enumerating the splendid achievements of that 
heroic King, and particularly desired us to observe 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



the attitude of the figure of Victory ; " Pray, Sir," 
said Fagan, " may I take the liberty of asking a 
question is Victory putting the laurel on His 
Majesty's head, or taking it off." The question 
puzzled the Frenchman, and made me laugh heartily. 

At day-break, one morning, I was awakened by 
the beating of drums, and an uproar in the street ; 
I found the King and Queen had made their escape 
from Paris ; the tumult was terrific ; all the gates 
of Paris were closed ; the national guards called out ; 
in short, all was anarchy and confusion; and 
although those dreadful scenes have been too accu- 
rately described to need an observation, it is im- 
possible for one who has been an eye-witness to the 
horrors of a revolution, to refer to the period with- 
out touching on the subject. 

One evening, I was sitting at the Cafe de Foix, 
in the Palais Royal, with my two friends, Macarthy 
and Fagan, and at the same table was seated the , 

notorious republican, Tom Paine, and with him the y 

well-known Governor Wall; these two worthy 
persons were pouring forth to a groupe that crowded 
round the table, the most horrid invectives against 
the King and Queen; my blood boiled to hear the 
miscreants vomit forth their infernal doctrines, and 
revolutionary principles. In the midst of their 
harangue a courier entered the coffee-room with 
intelligence, that the King, Queen, and family had 



S4) EEMINISCENCES OF 

been taken prisoners at Varennes; never shall I 
forget the delight of that caitiff Tom Paine ; his 
Bardolph face blazed with delight, and Governor 
Wall loudly vociferated curses on their heads. I 
and my friends left the coffee-house with grief and 
horror, but were obliged to stifle our feelings : the 
sad news we found too true ; it was proclaimed in 
the Palais Royal, on the Boulevards, and all over 
Paris ; and at night there was a general illumination. 

The next day Paris was all in a bustle ; couriers 
gallopping backwards and forwards, dragged off 
their horses by the mob, and obliged to shew their 
dispatches before they were allowed to proceed. In 
the evening, the King and Queen were expected to 
arrive at the Thuilleries, accompanied by their 
family and suite. I procured a place to see their 
entry, and, through the interest of a friend, 
mounted a tree quite close to the palace. The 
road through which they were to pass was crowded 
for miles. 

About six o'clock they entered the Thuilleries. I 
shall never forget it ; it was a heart-breaking sight 
to see them brought prisoners into their own pa- 
lace ; their faithful followers and servants were seated 
on the top of their carriages, covered with dust, ac- 
companied by an immense body of national guards. 
The conduct of the populace I thought most praise- 
worthy ; not a voice was heard ; all was silence ; no 



MICHAEL KELLY. 25" 

exultation, no disapprobation ; in every countenance 
around me I saw nothing but depression and sorrow. 

I was quite close to the carriage when they dis- 
mounted ; nothing could be more majestic than the 
conduct of the Queen, when Dupont (member of 
the National Assembly,) offered to hand her from 
the carriage ; she waved her hand, and walked with 
a firm step into the palace, without accepting his 
aid. She was plainly dressed, and, I remember, 
wore a black bonnet, covered with dust. What a 
reverse of fortune ! not quite six years previously I 
had seen both the King and Queen dining in public 
at Versailles, in health, in happiness, and in great- 
ness, the very idols of their subjects ; and now I 
beheld them brought back by force to their capital 
like malefactors. 

I wished to quit such scenes as soon as possible, 
and the next morning went to Mr. Merry, His Bri- 
tannic Majesty's minister, to procure a passport, but 
was more than a week before I could obtain one. I 
met at Mr. Merry's, Johnstone's friend, Mr. Eng- 
land, who was also waiting to get a passport to take 
him to Boulogne-sur-mer ; he kindly offered me a 
seat in his carriage, which I thankfully accepted ; 
we both got passports, and at nine o'clock at night 
left Paris. I had the precaution to put a national 
eockade in my hat ; while my companion, who by 
the way had been taking so many parting bottles 

VOL. II C 



26 BEMINISCENCES OF 

with his friends that he was greatly intoxicated, fell 
fast asleep. 

When we got to the post-house, at Ecouen, to 
change horses, a crowd of men and women sur- 
rounded our carriage, armed with pikes, pitch-forks, 
&c. and demanded our passports ; a monster of a 
woman, with a pike clenched in her extensive hand, 
opened the carriage-door, woke England out of his 
sleep, and gave him a hearty shake ; he could not 
speak any French, except, unluckily, a few ahusive 
words, which he did not fail to bestow upon all 
around him. I jumped out of the carriage, and 
addressed the huge Sycorax, who appeared to be the 
spokeswoman of the infuriated party ; I told her 
that my companion and myself were English repub- 
licans, shewed her the national cockade which I wore 
in my hat, and added, that the gentleman in the 
carriage was, unfortunately, very much intoxicated, 
with drinking republican toasts before he left Paris. 
I shewed her our passports, and, in short, soothed 
and flattered the huge harridan so much, that she 
let us proceed without further molestation. Our 
lives would not have been worth a sous, had I not 
spoken French, and taken the method which I did ; 
notwithstanding which, I felt very uneasy until I 
reached Boulogne, for Mr. England was rather of a 
Choleric temper, and could not disguise his dislike 
to the French. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 27 

When I got to Boulogne, I remained with him at 
his house there for two days, which were all I could 
spare, as the time was approaching at which I was 
obliged to be at Oxford, where Mrs. Crouch and I 
were engaged to sing at the grand musical festival. 
After this short delay, therefore, I took my leave of 
Dick England, grateful for the many attentions he 
paid me. I cannot omit mentioning a circumstance 
that happened, which I thought reflected great 
credit on him. 

When I was at Dover, previous to my going to 
France the last time, there was at the same inn with 
me, a young man, a native of Dublin, and a 
Quaker, who was going to Dunkirk on some com- 
mercial business ; but there being no packet at that 
port, and I, being pleased with his society, pre- 
vailed upon him to accompany me to Boulogne, 
where I knew he would find plenty of land convey- 
ances to Dunkirk. 

He was a jolly dog, and recounted many stories 
of his partiality to the stage, and how he used to 
disguise himself to go to the theatre, for fear of its 
coming to the knowledge of the elders ; he was a 
wet Quaker, a fac-simile of CTKeefe's young Sad 
Boy ; and, among other innocent propensities which 
hs appeared to have, had certainly a great passion 
for gaming. We got to Boulogne early in the morn- 



EEMINISCENCES OF 

ing, and I proposed to stay there for three or four 
days. 

On the pier I met with Mr. B , with whom I 

had formed a slight acquaintance when at Boulogne 
the year before ; he invited himself to dine with me 
and young Sad Boy ; we drank a good deal of wine, 
and the Spirit moved my young Quaker to excess ; 
he was an open-hearted fellow, and told us that his 
business at Dunkirk was to receive a large sum of 
money, at which intelligence, our visitor, honest 

Mr. B , seemed specially delighted. Now, this 

self-invited, dinner-taking friend, I knew to be a 
great gambler, and leagued with a number of Eng- 
lish gamblers in Boulogne and at Paris, to scramble 
for what they could get. When Sad Boy had re- 
tired to rest, my honourable friend removed all 
doubts upon the subject by saying, " Shall we do 
the foreigner ?" I asked him what he meant; " to 
get part of the money which he is going to fetch 
from Dunkirk," said he, "and divide it between 
us." I said I would think of it, and confer further 
on the subject in the morning. 

I knew that the fellow who made the vile propo- 
sition derived his chief support from the liberality 
of Dick England, and that the gambling transac- 
tions of the precious junto were all known to him. 
The post was in an hour to set off for Paris ; so 



MICHAEL KELLY. 29 

before I went to bed I wrote a letter to Dick Eng- 
land, at that city, informed him of the proposition 

made to me, and the intention of Mr. B to follow 

my friend to Dunkirk, and pillage him. I added? 
that my Quaker friend was an open-hearted, good- 
natured, unsuspicious Irishman, and entreated him 

to write to Mr. B -, and lay his injunction on 

him to avoid following young Sad Boy, and stated 
that I would wait at Boulogne, at Parker's Hotel, 
till I received his answer to my letter, which I en- 
treated might be immediate. 

I waited accordingly ; by return of post I got 
a letter from Mr. England, stating that he had writ- 
ten to worthy Mr. B to caution him against 

directly or indirectly meddling with the Quaker ; on 
the contrary, to watch him, and take care that he 
did not. fall into the hands of any other decoy. 

I shewed England's letter to young Sad Boy, ad- 
vised him to be more upon his guard before strangers, 
and less communicative ; I saw him safe off for 
Dunkirk, and got into my calessetto, on my way to 
Paris ; and never, from that day to this, have I seen 

Mr. B , who wished me to become a partner in 

his iniquity. 

As soon as I reached Dover, I started for Lon- 
don, where I remained but one day. Mrs. Crouch, 
an attached friend of hers (Mrs. Williams), and 
I, set off in a travelling carriage for Oxford, where 



30 HEMINISCENCES OF 

we had lodgings taken for us, at the moderate rate 
of twelve guineas for the festival week. When 
we got to Salt Hill, Mrs. Crouch was attacked by 
dreadful shiverings and spasms ; and when we 
reached Henley, found herself unable to proceed* 
I immediately sent for medical assistance, and had 
the good fortune to meet with Mr. Bayley, a skilful 
surgeon and apothecary, who found his patient in 
such a state that her removal would have been 
undertaken at the hazard of her life. We had to 
sing at the festival the next morning, but there was 
no alternative ; I was obliged to leave her, and post 
to Oxford by myself: I got there just as the^per- 
formance was beginning. I informed Dr. Hayes, 
the conductor, of Mrs. Crouch's illness, who advised 
me to go, after church, to Dr. Wall, the principal 
physician in Oxford, and prevail upon him to visit 
Mrs. Crouch, at Henley. The Doctor's house was 
full of company, and he had a large party to dine 
with him ; notwithstanding which, he instantly put 
post horses to his carriage, and went off to 
Henley. 

Immediately after the evening concert was over 
I set off for that place myself, and there found the 
worthy Doctor, who told me his patient was in 
great danger. He remained with her four days 
and nights : each morning, at break of day, 
I was obliged to post for Oxford, and after the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 31 

business of the day, return at night to Henley. 
The fatigue was wearing to the body, not to speak 
of the agony of singing in the church in the morning 
and at the concerts in the evening, with an aching 
heart and anxious mind. 

On the fifth day the worthy Doctor Wall pro- 
nounced his patient out of danger, and took his 
departure for Oxford, leaving her under the care 
of Mr. Bayley. We were obliged to remain there 
nearly four weeks, at the end of which period, I 
had the gratification to see my valued friend re- 
stored to her usual health and beauty. We went 
to .Worcester and Birmingham for a few nights, and 
returned to London for the opening of the winter 
season at the King's Theatre., October 18th. 

At that theatre was introduced to the public, 
for the first time, the musical romance, called " The 
Prisoner," written by the Rev. Mr. Rose, one of 
the masters of the Charter House. It was a piece 
of much interest ; the principal scene (and a most 
effective one it was,) I saw at Paris, and gave it to 
the author, who with a great deal of ingenuity, in- 
grafted it on his own drama. It was that where 
the prisoner escapes by the aid of the gaoler's chil- 
dren. Chenard, the French actor's performance of 
the gaoler, was very fine acting ; and it is but jus- 
tice to say, that Wewitzer's representation of the 
same character in its English garb, suffered nothing 



32 REMINISCENCES OF 

by comparison. The music by Attwood was very 
pleasing. 

On the 20th of November, the opera of " The 
Pirates 1 ' 1 was produced ; the drama by Cobb, the 
music by Storace. The male performers in it were 
Kelly, Dignum, Sedgwick, Suett, John Bannister, 
and Parsons. The females, Mrs. Crouch, Miss 
Decamp, Mrs. Bland, and Signora Storace ; the 
scenery was picturesque and beautiful, from designs 
taken on the spot by Stephen Storace, at Naples. 
The magic-lantern scene, representing Hero and 
Leander, and the crossing of the Hellespont, was 
peculiarly beautiful. Mr. Sheridan directed that 
no expense should be spared in decorating the opera, 
and his orders were fulfilled. The music was a 
master-piece; but, above all, the finale at the end 
of the first act, which I thought Storace's chef- 
d'oeuvre, and worthy to be placed by the side of 
Mozarfs first finale to the " Nozze cli Figaro." 

All the performers had characters suited to their 
respective abilities, and the opera had a most suc- 
cessful run to crowded houses. There was a scene 
and a quintette in the third act ; the music com- 
posed by Guglielmi, a beautiful morceau, from the 
Italian opera performed at the Pantheon, entitled 
" La Bella Pescatrice." Stephen Storace thought 
so, and therefore introduced it. Whenever Storace 
selected, his knowledge of stage-effect was so great. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

that the selections were always appropriate and 
never-failing. 

Mr. Sheridan had this year entered into an ar- 
rangement with Mr. Taylor, the proprietor of the 
Opera House, to carry on Italian Operas twice a 
week. On those nights (Tuesday and Saturday), 
the Drury Lane Company performed at the Little 
Theatre in the Haymarket ; and at the Opera 
House on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and 
Friday. 

On the 24th of January, 1793, there was not 
any play performed, from respect to the memory of 
the unfortunate monarch, Louis the Sixteenth, Avho 
was murdered in Paris on that day. Mr. Kemble, 
without consulting Mr. Sheridan, closed the thea- 
tre. Mr. Sheridan, who was out "of town, arrived 
late that evening, and finding there was no play, 
came to my house in Suffolk Street, accompanied 
by the present Earl Grey 5 and was highly incensed 
at the shutting up of the theatre upon such an 
occasion ; for, he said, it was an invariable maxim 
with him, that neither politics nor religion should 
be taken notice of in his playhouse ; though, I 
believe, no man deplored the tragical event more 
sincerely than he did. 

Mr. Sheridan appointed Stephen Storace and 
myself joint directors of the Italian Opera, with a 
carte blanche ; but he was proprietor, and of course 
c5 



REMINISCENCES OF 

consulted on all important points ; and whose advice 
on theatricals, or any thing else, indeed, was so 
good, when he chose to give it. Amongst other 
things, he desired that the boxes should be newly 
decorated, and the seats in the pit and gallery 
covered with new cloth. 

One day, when I returned from a late rehearsal 
to a hurried dinner, having to return to the theatre 
to act in " Cymon," I saw a man waiting in the 
passage of my house in Suffolk Street, with patterns 
of different coloured cloth, that I might select one 
wherewith to cover the seats of the theatre. In a 
great hurry, I examined them, and chose one; the 
sequel will prove, that it would have been better 
for me had I professed myself no judge of up- 
holstery. 

The Italian Opera Company was good, in both 
the serious and comic departments. Signor Bruni, 
the first soprano singer, possessed a fine voice and fine 
person ; Madame Mara was the prima donna ; and 
myself the serious tenor. For the comic opera, 
Morelli was the primo buffo ; Rondini, the second 
buffo ; Signora Storace, the prima donna ; with 
several others. 

Paesiello's charming comic opera, the " Zingari in 
Fiera," was produced that season ; its popularity 
lasted many years. The ballets were of the first 
class ; the great Noverre was the ballet-master, and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 35 

there was a numerous and well-chosen corps de 
ballet. Among others, Didelot, L'Abune, Miss 
Novelon, Gardel, Aumer, D'Egville, &c. Made- 
moiselle Millau (now Madame Gardel), and the fas- 
cinating Hillisberg. Noverre produced his mag- 
nificent ballet of " L'Iphigenie en Aulide ;" the 
splendour of the spectacle, the scenery, the richness 
of the decorations and dresses, could not have been 
surpassed : the dancing was of the first order, and 
the acting of D^Egville, in Agamemnon, inimitable; 
the triumphal cars, with horses ; the grand marches, 
processions, and above all, the fine grouping of the 
corps de ballet, all was vrai classicality, and proved 
Noverre to be the greatest master of his art. But 
he was a passionate little fellow ; he swore and tore 
behind the scenes, so that, at times, he might really 
have been taken for a lunatic escaped from his 
keeper. 

I once felt the effects of his irritability : The 
horses attached to the car in which D'Egville was 
placed, were led by two men from Astley's, one of 
whom was so drunk that he could not go on the 
stage. I had been acting in the opera, but was so 
eager for the affray, and so anxious that things 
should go on right, that I had taken off my opera 
dress, and put on that of a Grecian supernumerary, 
and, with a vizor on my face, of course was not 
known. I held one of the horses, and all went 



36 BEMINISCENCES OF 

correctly. I was standing be hind the scenes, talking 
to one of the men, in my supernumerary dress, and 
perhaps rather loudly ; Noverre, who was all fire 
and fury, came behind me and gave me a tremendous 
kick. " Taisez-vous, bete!" exclaimed he; but 
when I took off my vizor, and Noverre found he 
had been kicking his manager, he made every pos- 
sible apology, which I of course accepted, and 
laughed at the incident ; at the same time begging 
him not to give me another such striking proof of 
his personal attention to the concern. By the way, 
the carpenters seemed, by their looks, to say, that 
the kicking was better bestowed on me, than on one 
of themselves ; however, I can assure the reader it 
was the manager's last kick. 

At the Little Theatre, the Drury Lane company 
performed, on March 7th, a very pretty operatic 
piece, called " Osmyn and Daraxa." The drama 
was written by Mr. James Boaden, and well re- 
ceived ; the music by Attwood was very good. On 
the llth of the same month, was acted for the 
first time, for Storace's benefit, the " Prize ; or, 
2. 5. 3. 8." written by Prince Hoare, the music by 
Stephen Storace; it was received with great ap- 
plause, and certainly not more than it merited, for 
it proved a prize to the theatre. 

On the 20th of June, at the same house, with 
Mr. Colman's summer company, was performed, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 37 

" The London Hermit ; or, Rambles in Dorset- 
shire," one of O'Keefe's pleasantest productions; 
the part of the Irish Cicerone was a clief-d\circn\ 
as performed by Johnstone. (TKeefe and John- 
stone dined with me on the day it was produced, 
and I was highly gratified in having at my table 
O'Keefe, who had played with me in Dublin, in 
" Lionel and Clarissa," before my departure for 
Italy. But, alas ! how changed I found him ! 
When he acted Jessamy, he was a fine, sprightly, 
animated young man ; now, poor fellow, broken 
down, and almost blind ; but still full of pleasantry 
and anecdote. I went to see the comedy, which was 
admirably performed, and perfectly succeeded. 

This year Drury Lane lost one of its most effi- 
cient members, in Mr. Wrighten, the Prompter, a 
man most esteemed and respected. I have often 
heard, Mr. Sheridan say, that he thought an intelli- 
gent prompter of the greatest importance to a well- 
regulated theatre: a stage manager was only re- 
quired for state days and holidays, but a steady 
prompter was the corner-stone of the building. 
Wrighten's funeral was attended by all the School 
of Garrick, of which I was a member. Jack Ban- 
nister was detained on some particular business, and 
did not arrive until we were just setting out to the 
burial. Charles Bannister said, " For shame, Jack 
why are you so much after your time ? If 
Wrighten were alive, he^d forfeit you for being late." 



38 REMINISCENCES OF 

Speaking of the School of Garrick, and of mj 
belonging to it, I ought perhaps to explain, that it 
was a club formed by a few of the cotemporaries of 
the British Roscius, who dined together during the 
theatrical winter season, once a month. They did 
me the honour (unsolicited on my part) to admit me 
among them. I was highly flattered as a young 
man, and duly appreciated the favour. It was, of all 
societies I ever have been in, perhaps the most 
agreeable ; nothing could surpass it for wit, plea- 
santry, good humour, and brotherly love. When 
I was admitted, I found the following members 
belonging to it : 

KING, JAMES AICKIN, 

DODD, FARREN, 

MOODY, AVftoucHTON, 

PARSONS, JOHN PALMEU, 

BADDELY, ROBERT PALMER, 
J. and C. BANNISTER, and 

FRANK AICKIN, BURTON. 

In mentioning their names, I need not say what 
were the flashes of wit and merriment that set the 
table in a roar; and yet, with the exception of my 
worthy friend, Jack Bannister, (whom God long 
preserve !) they are all gone to that bourne from 
which no traveller returns. 

As they fell off, the following members were 
elected in their room : 



MICHAEL KELLY, 30 

HOLMAN, CHERRY, 

HENRY JOIINSTONE, DOWTON, 

POPE, MATHEWS, 

SUETT, CHARLES KEMBLE. 

My friend Pope gave an excellent dinner, upon 
the occasion of his election, at his house in Half 
Moon Street; and the first Mrs. Pope, the ci- 
devant Miss Young, who had acted many of the 
principal characters of our Immortal Bard, with 
distinguished eclat, was requested to become a 
member of the club, by accepting the silver medal 
of Garrick, which each member wore at the meet- 
ings of the society. She came amongst us, and 
seemed to appreciate the flattering attention paid to 
her high professional merits. She was the only female 
who ever had the compliment paid her ; but, alas ! 
she, among the rest, is now no more ; and, delight- 
ful as the society was, and intellectual as its recrea- 
tions were, it gradually dwindled, either from deaths 
or desertions, until at last it has become extinct. 

Old Moody, who was delighted with every thing 
which reminded him of his great master, was almost 
broken-hearted at the event. I was always partial 
to Moody's agreeable society ; so, to indulge the 
old gentleman, I proposed that he and I should 
meet once a month, dine together, and keep up the 
form of the club, which we did for some time. 



40 REMINISCENCES OF 

I remember upon one of these occasions, I per- 
ceived, as we sat over our bottle, that he was more 
than usually low spirited, and I ventured to ask, 
what made him so ? " My dear fellow," said he, 
" I feel myself the most miserable of men, though 
blessed with health and affluence. Such is the de- 
testable vice of avarice, which I feel growing upon 
me, that parting with a single sixpence, is to me like 
parting with a drop of my heart's blood, for which 
reason, unconquerable as the growing passion is, I 
feel that I ought to be abhorred and detested by 
mankind/' 

I endeavoured to rally him out of so singular a 
feeling ; and as far as I am personally concerned, I 
can vouch for it, that he had no just reason for 
indulging it ; for when I was desirous of purchasing 
the lease of my house, in Pall Mall, and happened 
to say in his presence, that I wanted ^.500 to com- 
plete the bargain, he called upon me the following 
day and offered me the loan of that sum, upon 
no other security than my simple note of hand. 

At the tete-a-tete meetings of the club he was, at 
times, very entertaining, and told me many stories 
of himself. Amongst others, he said that, early in 
life, he was sent out to Jamaica ; and on his return 
to England, went on the stage unknown to his 
friends. I do not recollect the name of the ship 



MICHAEL KELLY. 41 

in which he told me he came back to England ; but 
he informed me, that lie worked his passage home 
as a sailor before the mast. 

One night, some time after he had been on the 
stage, when he was acting Stephano in the " Tem- 
pest,"" a sailor, in the front row of the pit of Drury 
Lane, got up, and standing upon the seat, hallooed 
out, " What cheer, Jack Moody, what cheer, 
messmate ?" 

This unexpected address from the pit rather 
astonished the audience. Moody, however, stepped 
forward to the lamps, and said, " Jack Hullet, 
keep your jawing tacks aboard don't disturb the 
crew and passengers ; when the show is over, make 
sail for the stage-door, and well finish the evening 
over a bowl of punch ; but till then, Jack, shut 
your locker." 

After the play was ended, the rough son of Nep- 
tune was shewn to Moody 's dressing-room, and 
thence they adjourned to the Black Jack, in Clare 
Market (a house which Moody frequented), and 
spent a jolly night over sundry bowls of arrack. 
This story, told by himself in his humourous 
manner, was very amusing. 

Previous to the dissolution of the club, one night, 
when we were full of mirth and glee, and Moody 
seated, like Jove in his chair, and Mathews, 
t amongst other members, present, a waiter came in 



42 REMINISCENCES OF 

to tell Mr. Henry Johnstone, that a gentleman 
wished to speak to him in the next room. In a few 
minutes we heard a great noise and bustle, and 
Henry Johnstone, in a loud tone, say, " Sir, you 
cannot go into the room where the club is ; none 
but members are on any account admitted ; such 
are our rules." 

" Talk not to me of your rules," said the 
stranger ; " I insist upon being admitted." And 
after a long controversy of, " I will go;" and 
" You shan't go ;" the door was burst open, and 
both contending parties came tumbling in. 

The stranger placed himself next to me, and 
I thought him the ugliest and most impudent 
fellow I ever met with. He went on with a rhap- 
sody of nonsense, of his admiration of our society, 
that he could not resist the temptation of joining it, 
filled himself a glass of wine, and drank to our 
better acquaintance. 

Moody, with great solemnity, requested him to 
withdraw, for no one could have a seat at that table 
who was not a member. 

The stranger replied, " I don't care for your 
rules ; talk not to me of your regulations I will 
not stir an inch !" 

" Then," cried the infuriated Moody, " old as I 
am, I will take upon myself to turn you out." 

Moody jumped up, and throttled the stranger, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 4# 

who defended himself manfully ; all was confusion, 
and poor Moody was getting black in the face ; 
when the stranger threw off his wig, spectacles, and 
false nose, and before us stood Mathews himself, in 
propria persona. So well did he counterfeit his 
assumed character, that except Henry Johnstone, 
who was his accomplice in the plot, not one amongst 
us suspected him. 

Moody, when undeceived, was delighted, and 
added his tribute of applause to Mathews; and 
the evening passed off as usual, with glee and 
revelry. The part was admirably managed by 
Mathews, who had taken an opportunity of leaving 
the room to prepare himself for his disguise, while a 
song was going on, which engrossed the attention 
of the company, and so slipped out unnoticed. I 
have mentioned this circumstance in perhaps a 
wrong place, for it happened many years after the 
period of which I was previously treating ; but as I 
was on the subject of the School of Garrick, I 
thought the anachronism excusable. 

In the summer of 1793, Mrs. Crouch, and I had 
engagements at Birmingham, Manchester, Chester,. 
Shrewsbury, Worcester, and Liverpool ; and at 
Dublin, for December, January, and February. 

Previous to going there, we played a few nights 
at Liverpool. My benefit was the last night of our 
engagement. In the morning of that eventful day. 



44 REMINISCENCES OF 

crossing Williamson Square to go to the theatre, a 
gentleman stopped me, and accosting me with the 
most pointed civility, informed me that he had a 
writ against me for 350Z. ; I, at the time, not owing 
a sixpence to any living creature. 

I said he must be mistaken in his man. He 
shewed me the writ which was at the suit of a 
Mr. Henderson, an upholsterer in Coventry-street ; 
and the debt, he said, had been incurred for 
furnishing the Opera House with covering for the 
boxes, pit, &c. Sec. So, instead of preparing for 
the custody of Locket, on the stage, (for " The 
Beggar's Opera" was the piece to be acted), I was 
obliged to go to a spunging-house. 

I requested the sheriff's officer, who was ex- 
tremely civil, to accompany me to Mrs. Crouch, to 
consult what I had best do ; she advised me by no 
means to acknowledge the debt, but to go to the 
Exchange, and state publicly the cause of my 
arrest, and to ask any gentleman there to become 
bail ; making over to such bail, as a security, 
nearly five hundred pounds, which we luckily had 
paid into Mr. Heywood's bank, in Liverpool, three 
days before ; but Mr. Frank Aickin, who was then 
manager, rendered any such arrangement unneces- 
sary, as he very handsomely came forward and 
bailed me. I was therefore released, and performed 
Macheath that night to a crowded house. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 45 

I sent my servant to London by the mail, with 
an account of the transaction to Mr. Sheridan, who 
immediately settled the debt in his own peculiar 
way. He sent for Henderson the upholsterer, to 
his house ; and after describing the heinous cruelty 
he had committed, by arresting a man who had 
nothing to do with the debt, and who was on a 
professional engagement in the country, expatiated 
and remonstrated, explained and extenuated, until he 
worked so much upon the upholsterer, that in less 
than half an hour, he agreed to exonerate me and 
my bail ; taking, instead of such security, Mr. 
Sheridan's bond ; which, I must say, was extremely 
correct in the upholsterer. But Mr. Sheridan 
never did tilings by halves ; and therefore, before 
the said upholsterer quitted the room he contrived 
to borrow 200J. of him, in addition to the original 
claim, and he departed, thinking himself highly 
honoured by Mr. Sheridan's condescension in 
accepting the loan. 

I have seen many instances of Mr. Sheridan's 
power of raising money when pushed hard ; and 
one among the rest, I confess even astonished me. 
He was once 3,000/. in arrear with the performers 
of the Italian opera : payment was put off from day 
to day, and they bore the repeated postponements 
with Christian patience; but, at last, even their 
docility revolted, and finding all the tales of Hope 
flattering, they met, and resolved not to perform 



46 REMINISCENCES OF 

any longer until they were paid. As manager^ I 
accordingly received on the Saturday morning their 
written declaration, that not one of them would 
appear at night. On getting this, I went to Messrs. 
Morlands" 1 banking-house, in Pall Mall, to request 
some advances, in order to satisfy the performers for 
the moment ; but, alas ! my appeal was vain, and 
the bankers were inexorable, they, like the singers, 
were worn out, and assured me, with a solemn oath 
that they would not advance another shilling either 
to Mr. Sheridan or the concern, for that they were 
already too deep in arrear themselves. 

This was a pozer ; and with a heart rather 
sad I went to Hertford Street, May fair, to Mr. 
Sheridan, who at that time had not risen. Having 
sent him up word of the urgency of my business, 
after keeping me waiting rather more than two 
hours in the greatest anxiety, he came out of his 
bed-room. I told him unless he could raise 3,000/. 
the theatre must be shut up, and he, and all be- 
longing to the establishment, be disgraced. 

" Three thousand pounds, Kelly ! there is no 
such sum in nature," said he, with all the coolness 
imaginable ; nay, more than I could have imagined 
a man, under such circumstances, capable of. " Are 
you an admirer of Shakspeare ?"" 

" To be sure I am, 17 said I ; " but what has Shak- 
speare to do with 8,000/. or the Italian singers ?" 

" There is one passage in Shakspeare/' said he, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 47 

" which I have always admired particularly ; and it 
is that where Falstaff says, ' Master Robert Shallow, 
I owe you a thousand pounds. 1 ' Yes, Sir John,' 
says Shallow, ' which I beg you will let me take 
home with me.' ' That may not so easy be, Master 
Robert Shallow, 1 replies Falstaff; and so say I unto 
thee, Master Mick Kelly, to get three thousand 
pounds may not so easy be." 

" Then, Sir,'' said I, " there is no alternative 
but closing the Opera House;" and not quite 
pleased with his apparent carelessness, I was 
leaving the room, when he bade me stop, ring the 
bell, and order a hackney-coach. He then sat 
down, and read the newspaper, perfectly at his 
ease, while I was in an agony of anxiety. When 
the coach came, he desired me to get into it, and 
order the coachman to drive to Morland's, and 
to Morland's we went ; there he got out, and 
I remained in the carriage in a state of nervou s 
suspense not to be described ; but in less than 
a quarter of an hour, to my joy and surprise, 
out he came, with 3,OOOZ. in bank notes in his 
hand. By what hocus pocus he got it, I never knew, 
nor can I imagine even at this moment ; but certes 
he brought it to me, out of the very house where, 
an hour or two before, the firm had sworn that they 
would not advance him another sixpence. 

He saw, by my countenance, the emotions of 



48 REMINISCENCES OF 

surprise and pleasure his appearance, so provided, 
had excited ; 'and, laughing, bid me take the money 
to the treasurer, but to be sure to keep enough out 
of it to buy a barrel of native oysters, which he 
would come and roast at night, at my house in 
Suffolk Street. 

After my benefit, at Liverpool, we performed a 
few nights at Chester, where I met a Major Hal- 
liday, who was doatingly fond of the stage, and 
particularly of acting Hamlet. He did so one night 
at the Chester theatre to a crowded house. I have 
seen many worse professional Hamlets ; Mrs. Crouch 
was the Ophelia. I went to spend a couple of days 
with him at his place, within a few miles of Parkgate, 
accompanied by Messrs. Banks and Ward, the 
proprietors of the Chester and Manchester theatres, 
where we were entertained most hospitably. He 
had, living with him, a very pleasant and agreeable 
fellow, a Captain Stanley, who, for many years, 
was no slouch at the bottle, any more than the 
Major himself, who studied quantity as well as 
quality ; however, poor Captain Stanley was nearly 
blind, and one dark night, he was found drowned. 
It was strange that water should have been the 
cause of a man's death, who had a natural aversion 
from it during his life : he was lamented by all who 
bad enjoyed his pleasant society. 

After concluding our Chester engagement, we 



MICHAEL KELLY. 49 

set off for Dublin. Mrs. Siddons was just finishing 
her performances there; then King was to play 
for a fortnight, and then Mrs. Crouch and myself 
were to take the field. 

During the whole of my friend King's stay in 
Dublin, he used to come every night after acting, 
and sup with me, and delightful indeed was his 
society. He had an inexhaustible fund of anec- 
dote, which he told in a way peculiar to himself, 
and, like Anacreon, blended to the last, the flower 
of youth with the hoary frost of age. 

I was standing behind the scenes, in Crow Street* 
one night, and I saw him for once rather put out of 
temper. The play was the School for Scandal ; he 
was at the side wing, waiting to go on the stage, as 
Sir Peter Teazle. At the stage-door was seated an 
immensely fat woman, the widow of Ryder, the 
celebrated Irish actor, who had been the original Sir 
Peter Teazle, in Dublin, in the summer of 1777. 

The lusty dame, looking at King, who was stand- 
ing close to her, hollowed out, with an implacable 
brogue, and the lungs of a Stentor, " Arrah ! agra ! 
there was but one Sir Peter Teazle in the world, and 
he is now in heaven, and more is the pity. Ah ! 
Tom Ryder ! Tom Ryder ! look down upon Sir 
Peter Teazle here, your dirty representative :" and 
after this complimentary harangue, the wretched lady 
began to howl most piteously, to the great annoy- 
ance of all behind the scenes, but most particularly 

VOL. II. D 



50 REMINISCENCES OF 

to that of King, who appeared really disconcerted. 
However, the widow was removed, tranquillity was 
restored, the cloud dispersed, and King acted with 
his usual excellence. Two nights after this rencontre, 
he had to act his favourite part, Lord Ogilby. I 
was at dinner, with a couple of friends, at my own 
house, and received the following note from him : 

"Mv DEAR KELLY, 

" I am just come to the theatre, to dress for Lord 
Ogilby, and asked my dresser to hand me a wine-cork, 
to mark the lines of my face ; he has seriously sworn to 
me, that he had been looking every where, all over Dublin, 
and could not procure a cork. Now, my good friend, if you 
should have such a thing, by any chance, as a cork, and will 
send it to me, Lord Ogilby's visage will be much indebted 
to you for the donation." 

I thought he was hoaxing ; but when he came to 
sup with me after the play, he assured me it was a 
true bill ; and when I found who his dresser was, I 
was not surprised. He was a merry wag, of the 
name of Tuke, a fellow of low humour, a veritable 
Dicky Gossip; whose former profession had been 
hair-dressing, and who was then the stage property- 
man at the Dublin Theatre. 

When John Kemble was performing the part of 
Alexander there, with great eclat, he wore armour 
and a helmet, which were made by Tuke, of which 
Tuke was very proud. After Kemble had quitted 



MICHAEL KELLY. 51 

the theatre, upon some particular occasion, the play 
was again performed ; and Daly, the proprietor and 
manager, undertook to act the part of Alexander 
himself, and ordered a new helmet. Tuke took the 
helmet to him, but Daly found it so very much 
inferior to the one which he had made for Kemble, 
that he flung it in his face, and bestowed upon him 
a torrent of abuse, for attempting to give him so 
shabby a helmet for Alexander. 

Tuke replied, Mr. Daly, Sir, I think the 
helmet is a proper good one ; Mr. Kemble, (God 
Almighty bless him !) would not have found fault 
with it. Ah ! he is a player ! and would know 
how to put it on his head ; and if you, Mr. Daly, 
could act the part of Alexander the Great as 
well as Mr. Kemble, by my soul, you would believe 
yourself to be the son of Jove in right earnest."" 
The remark, coming from a common man, was 
rather good. This anecdote I heard from Mr. 
Daly himself. 

At this period, the Beggar's Opera was prohibited 
by the Irish Government from being acted, which 
of course made the public more eager to see it. It 
was suggested, that if I could make interest to get 
permission to have it acted for my benefit, it would 
draw a great house. I, therefore, waited on my 
good friend, Mrs. Jefferies, sister to Lord Clare ? 
the Lord Chancellor, to entreat her to use her in- 



52 REMINISCENCES OF 

fluence with his Lordship to get me permission to* 
have it acted. She pleaded my cause with great 
zeal, got a verdict in my favour, and the per- 
formance of it brought me an overflowing house. 

The managers ought to have been well pleased 
that I took this measure and carried it; for the 
piece, ever since that time, has kept its station on 
the Dublin stage. 

I found my sojourn in Dublin very pleasant ; 
all kindness and hospitality. I had the pleasure 
of associating, a great deal, with my friend Mr. 
Curran; and at his house, on Stephen r s Green, 
had the honour of meeting the late Messrs. Pon- 
sonby and Egan, Lord Norbury, and several of 
the stars of the Irish bar. I never spent a plea- 
santer time ; nor could I perceive, amongst any of 
those learned gentlemen, an illustration of Dr. 
Johnson's remark " that there must be a kind of 
solemnity in a professional man." 

After a very profitable and pleasant campaign, 
we finished our Dublin engagement, and prepared 
to fulfil those made in Manchester, Shrewsbury, 
and Birmingham, in our way to open New Drury. 
We agreed, for the first time in our lives, to go by 
a Liverpool packet, and sent our trunks, &c. to the 
Marine Hotel, to be put on board. 

On the morning proposed for our departure, 
Hitchcock, Daly's stage-manager, called upon us 



MICHAEL KELLY. 53 

to say, that they were going to perform the ensuing 
evening (for the first time), " The Mountaineers," 
and called to ask us, as we had seen it performed in 
London, what kind of scenery, dresses, and deco- 
rations, ought to be got ready for its representation. 
I laughed heartily at the idea of having only one 
day to prepare all those materials, and said to Mrs. 
Crouch, I would give any thing to see in what pos- 
sible way the play could be done in the time. 

" Well," said she, " that matter is easily ar- 
ranged ; the term of our lodgings is not up for 
four days to come; and by our engagement we 
are not obliged to be at Manchester until this day 
week ; send for our trunks, and let us stop." The 
proposition pleased me much, and we remained, 
and saw " The Mountaineers" the night following ; 
and it was a discredit to any barn. But blessed 
are the ways of Providence ; had not my appa- 
rently idle curiosity induced us to remain, most 
certain it is that we should have met a watery grave ; 
the Liverpool packet, in which we were to have 
sailed, foundered on the Welsh coast, and every 
soul on board perished. 

Three days after that melancholy event, we took 
our passage in a packet for Holyhead, where we 
arrived safe, after a pleasant passage of seven hours, 
and set off to fulfil our engagement at Manchester. 
We went to the Bridge water Arms Hotel, and in 



54 REMINISCENCES OF 

the coffee-room I saw a London newspaper, menv 
tioning the loss of the Liverpool packet; and, 
among the names of the unfortunate passengers 
who were lost, were Mrs. Crouch's and my own, 
with an elegiac eulogium deploring our fate, and 
making many handsome remarks upon us. Never 
did I read praise of myself with such unfeigned 
and lively feelings of pleasure. 

On the following day, in another London paper, 
was a letter addressed to the editor, dated Liver- 
pool, with Mr. Frank Aickin's name forged to it, 
stating that he had just returned from the funeral 
of poor Kelly and Mrs. Crouch, who were followed 
to the grave by a vast concourse of people, all bit- 
terly lamenting their untimely end. I never dis- 
covered the fellow who wrote this letter, but, who- 
ever he was, he must have had a heart callous to 
every right feeling. 

There was an odd coincidence at the time. 
Mrs. Crouch (who was always kindly attentive to 
her father), before she left Liverpool to go to 
Dublin, gave Mr. Packer, of Drury Lane Theatre, 
with whom she was intimate, a paper for Mr. 
Philips, wherein she bequeathed to him, in case any 
accident happened to her, a certain property ; but 
begged of Mr. Packer not to deliver the paper to 
Mr. Philips, unless he heard that any disaster had 
befallen her. Packer, when he heard of her sup- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 55 

posed death, went immediately to Mr. Philips, who 
was confined to his bed with the gout, to reveal to 
him the melancholy catastrophe, and deliver the 
paper consigned to his charge. Just as he was 
about to open the business, the postman came to 
the door, with a letter from Mrs. Crouch herself, 
to her father, dated at Manchester, informing him 
of her being in excellent health and spirits. Of 
course, the letter was satisfactory to all parties, and 
the contradiction of the report was inserted in all 
the newspapers. 

On our appearance at Manchester, our reception 
was enthusiastic, as it was every where, both on and 
off the stage; we were well known on the roads, 
and at all the inns we went to, on our way to 
Shrewsbury, Birmingham, and London, we were 
overwhelmed with congratulations on our safety ; 
and, after all our adventures, arrived, at the be- 
ginning of February, in Suffolk Street, where we 
found my friend, Stephen Storace, waiting for us. 

On the 3rd of February, I witnessed an ap- 
palling spectacle, at the Little Theatre in the Hay- 
market: their Majesties, on that night, had 
commanded three pieces,-" My Grandmother," 
" No Song, no Supper," and " The Prize," all 
written by my friend, Prince Hoare. To have 
them all performed on the same night, by royal 
command, was no small compliment to the author, 



56 REMINISCENCES OF 

and must have been highly satisfactory to him,- 
The crowd was so great, that at the opening of the 
doors, in going down the steps which led to the pit, 
three or four persons slipped and fell, arid several 
others were hurried over them ; sixteen persons 
were trampled to death, and upwards of twenty 
were taken up with broken limbs. The news of 
this fatal accident was, very judiciously, kept from 
their Majesties until after the performance was 
over, when they evinced the deepest sorrow and 
regret at the event. 

On the first Friday in Lent, March 12th, 1794, 
was opened the New Drury Lane Theatre, with 
a sacred oratorio, commencing with Handel's im- 
mortal Coronation Anthem ; the orchestra repre- 
sented the interior of a Gothic cathedral, and had 
a most sublime effect. And on the 21st of March, 
the theatre opened for the representation of dramas, 
with " Macbeth." A prologue, from the pen of 
the Right Honourable Major-General Fitzpatrick, 
was spoken by Mr. Kemble, with great applause. 

The day previous to the opening of the theatre, 
Colonel North, Sir Charles Bampfylde, Messrs. 
Richardson, Nield, Reed, Sheridan, and John 
Kemble, were to dine with me in Suffolk Street; an 
hour and a half before dinner, Kemble and I called 
at General Fitzpatrick's, to get the prologue, which 
Kemble was to speak the next night. Kembla 



MICHAEL KELLY. 57 

came . with me to Suffolk Street ; and had I not 
seen it, I could not have thought it possible : while 
we were waiting dinner for Mr. Sheridan, Kemble 
studied the prologue, which consisted of fifty lines, 
and was perfect in every word of it before dinner 
was announced : a powerful proof of his retentive 
memory and quick study, for, to my certain know- 
ledge, he had it not in his possession, altogether, 
more than an hour and a half. 

I have often heard him say, that he would make 
a bet that in four days he would repeat every line 
in a newspaper, advertisements and all, verbatim, in 
their regular order, without misplacing or missing a 
single word. 

The epilogue for the opening, was written by 
George Colman, and spoken in a fascinating manner 
by Miss Farren, explaining to the audience the 
utility of an iron curtain and a reservoir of water, 
in case of accidents by fire, which told remarkably 
well at the time, although the theatre was subse- 
quently burnt to the ground. It ended with a 
well-turned compliment to Shakspeare, whose statue 
was discovered under a mulberry tree at the rising 
of the iron curtain. 

Macbeth was splendidly got up, the costume 
appropriately preserved; the choruses were finely 
executed with all the strength of the company. 
I had die direction and getting up of the delightful 

D5 



58 REMINISCENCES OF 

music, and suggested a change which has been ever 
since adopted, and I think with good effect. It had 
been the custom for one witch only to sing 

He must he will he shall 
Spill much more blood. 

My alteration was 

FIRST WITCH. He must ! 
SECOND WITCH. He will ! 
THIRD WITCH He SHALL ! 

Spill much more blood ! 

laying great stress upon the climax, " He shall /"" 
The alteration was much approved of. 

There was another novelty in the witchery, 
at the words " Mingle, mingle ye, that mingle 
may,"" a great number of little boys came on as 
spirits; I must confess it produced something like 
laughter; they were, however, persisted in, for 
several nights, but at last discontinued, for there 
was no keeping the little boys in order ; they made 
such a terrible noise behind the scenes : one little 
urchin used to play all kinds of tricks; and that 
one, odd enough to say, was my ci-devant Cupid, 
Edmund Kean, and, on his account, Kemble 
dismissed the whole tribe of phantoms. 

The play was powerfully cast: Macbeth, Kem- 
ble; Macduff, John Palmer; Banquo, Bensley ; 



MICHAEL KELLY. 59 

Malcolm, Charles Kemble, who, on that night, 
made his first appearance before a London audience; 
Charles Bannister was the Hecate, and admirable 
he was in it; Mrs. Siddons was Lady Macbeth ; 
and Parsons, Moody, and Baddely, the speaking 
witches. 

On the 9th of June, the splendid musical 
spectacle of " Lodoiska," translated from the French 
by John Kemble, was produced; the translation 
w0s highly creditable to his talents, and the poetry 
admirably suited to the music, which Storace, with 
his never-failing taste and judgment, selected from 
the rival composers, Cherubini and Kreutzer. 

I was in Paris at the first representation of 
" Lodoiska" at both theatres. Kreutzer's was 
performed at the Theatre des Italiens, and Cheru- 
bim's at the Feydeau, both got up with great 
effect and care; but, partiality apart, the Drury 
Lane piece surpassed them both. Storace selected 
the most effective music from either, and enriched 
the piece with some charming melodies of his own 
composition ; the scenery was picturesquely grand 
and beautiful, the dresses in perfect costume. Mr. 
Kemble took great pains in getting up the piece, all 
the minutiae were especially attended to, and it was 
enthusiastically received by the public. 

In the last scene, when Mrs. Crouch was in the 
burning castle, the wind blew the flames close to 



60 REMINISCENCES OF 

her; but still she had sufficient fortitude not to 
move from her situation ; seeing her in such peril 
I ran up the bridge, which was at a great height 
from the ground, towards the tower, in order to 
rescue her; just as I was quitting the platform, a 
carpenter, prematurely, took out one of its suppor- 
ters, down I fell; and at the same moment, the 
fiery tower, in which was Mrs. Crouch, sank down 
in a blaze, with a violent crash ; she uttered a scream 
of terror. Providentially I was not hurt by the 
fall, and catching her in my arms, scarcely knowing 
what I was doing, I carried her to the front of the 
stage, a considerable distance from the place where 
we fell. The applause was loud and continued. In 
fact, had we rehearsed the scene as it happened, it 
could not have appeared half so natural, or produced 
half so great an effect. I always afterwards carried 
her to the front of the stage, in a similar manner, 
and it never failed to produce great applause. 
Such are, at times, the effects of accident. 

On that night, Mr. Sheridan came to sup with 
us ; and I told him I was lucky in not having 
broken my neck. He left us earlier than usual, to 
go to the Duchess of Devonshire's. The Duchess? 
who had been at the theatre, asked him if I was 
much hurt ; to which (with his usual good nature 
in making blunders for me) he replied, * Not in the 
least ; I have just left him very well, and in good; 



MICHAEL KELLY- 

spirits ; but he has been putting a very puzzling 
question to me, which was, ' Suppose, Mr. Sheri. 
dan, I had been killed by the fall, who would have 
maintained me for the rest of my life ?'" 

The overture to " Lodoiska*" is one of the most 
spirited compositions I ever heard, and was ad- 
mirably played by the Drury Lane band. Storace 
had the second movement of it struck off in an 
allegro spirituoso time, which electrified the 
audience, who called for its repetition with vehement 
applause; yet, when I went to Paris, I heard the 
same overture, (which by the way was not the 
original one, nor that which I had heard when 
before in Paris) of which the second movement, so 
brilliantly performed at Drury Lane, was played 
slow, by which it lost all its effect. I was introduced 
to Kreutzer, the composer of it, and sat down to 
the piano-forte, and played it in the time in which 
it was played in England; he thought himself 
the effect would be better: and on the 18th of 
August, 1802, Napoleon^s birth-day, there was a 
grand orchestra in the Thuilleries, conducted by 
Kreutzer, who was the first violin; he led his 
overture to " Lodoiska," in the same time as it was 
played at Drury Lane; the effect was prodigious, 
and shouts of applause followed. 

At this period, Mr. Sheridan was getting largely 
in my debt ; I, myself, was not keeping out of debt. 



62 REMINISCENCES OF 

and my wine bills were very large ; the purple tide 
flowed by day and night ; and I never stopped it, 
for then " I took the DRUNKARD for a GOD." 

One day, I called upon him, and requested he 
would let me have a little money ; he put me off, as 
usual, with promising he would let me have some 
to-morrow. To-morrow was always his favourite 
pay-day ; but, like the trust-day at a French inn, 
that morrow never did I see. In the midst of all 
this, he told me how much he was pleased with 
Tom Welsh, (then a boy,) and his singing 
" Angels, ever bright and fair," the night before. 
" He should be encouraged," said he ; " go and 
tell him, that, in addition to his salary, I shall send 
him a present of 200/. ; and you shall take it to 
him." "-Shall I?" said I, (making the quotation 
from Lionel and Clarissa), u I think the borough 
maybe disposed of to a worthier candidate;" but 
neither Welsh nor I ever got a halfpenny of the 
money. 

On the 2nd of July, a new musical piece was 
produced, entitled, " The Glorious First of June !" 
written by Mr. Cobb, for the benefit of the widows 
of the brave men who fell on that day. It was well 
suited to the purpose, and was a sequel to " No 
Song, no Supper ;" it was all got up in three days. 
Mr. Joseph Richardson^ wrote an elegant prologue 
on the occasion, which was spoken, with great feel- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 613 

Ing, by John Kemble ; the piece concluded with a 
grand sea-fight, and a sumptuous fete, in honour of 
our glorious victory. Storace and myself gave it 
some new songs ; but the music was chiefly old. I 
had to represent the character of Frederick ; and as 
I was so much employed in writing the music, I 
begged Mr. Sheridan (who wrote a good many 
speeches for it), to make as short a part for me, and 
with as little speaking in it as possible. He assured 
me he would. 

In the scene in which I came on, to sing a song 
(written by Cobb), " When in war on the ocean 
we meet the proud foe !" there was a cottage in the 
distance, at which (the stage direction said) I was 
to look earnestly, for a moment or two ; and the line 
which I then had to speak was this : 

" There stands my Louisa's cottage, she must be either in it, 
or out of it." 

The song began immediately, and not another word 
was there in the whole part. This sublime and 
solitary speech produced a loud laugh from the 
audience. 

When the piece was over, Mr. Sheridan came 
into the green-room, and complimented me on my 
quickness, and being so perfect in the part which 
he had tatfen so much pains to write for me ; which, 
he said, considering the short time I had to study 



4 REMINISCENCES OF 

it, was truly astonishing. He certainly had the 
laugh against me, and he did not spare me. 

Mrs. Crouch and I were engaged at the Edin- 
burgh Theatre, during the Leith Races ; I had a 
letter from my Apicius, Tate Wilkinson, asking us 
to stop and play one night at Leeds, on our way 
thither, which we did. " The Siege of Belgrade" 
drew an excellent house ; we spent a very pleasant 
evening, and picked up a little loose cash to pay 
turnpikes. 

I was delighted with the journey, and very much 
pleased with Edinburgh ; the New Town appeared 
to me to resemble Florence, with the superlative 
advantage of a sea-view. The prospect from the 
Calton Hill, and Arthurs Seat, filled me with ad- 
miration. I was also struck with the great resem- 
blance between the Old Town and many parts of 
Paris, particularly in the height of their houses, 
and some other points which shall be nameless. 

I found Mr. Jackson, of Edinburgh, a pleasing, 
well-informed man, and rather popular as a ma- 
nager ; and to be that, is no easy matter any where. 
I remember, when a child, to have heard his per- 
formance of Alcanor, in the tragedy of " Mahomet," 
highly spoken of; and that, in the famous speech of 

" Curse these vipers," &c. &c. 
he was encored three times a night ; during which 



S1ICHAEL KELLT. &3 

period, parties ran so high, that, between the pyos 
and cons, they kept the theatre, for many nights, 
in tumult and riot. Mrs. Jackson was rather a 
popular tragic actress with the Edinburgh audi- 
ence, and possessed much merit. There was a Mr. 
Wood in the company, a very great favourite, who 
was esteemed an excellent master of elocution, and 
a very worthy man, but a great oddity. His great 
ambition was to do every thing that Garrick used to 
do ; he rose at the same hour, shaved, breakfasted, 
and dined at the same hour ; ate and drank whatever 
he heard was Garrick V taste; in short, nothing 
could please him more than to copy Garrick impli- 
citly, and to be thought to do so. 

I was walking with him one day ; and, knowing 
his weak point, assured him that King had often 
told me that when Garrick was to perform any part 
to which he wished to give all his strength and 
energy, he used to prevail upon Mrs. Garrick to 
accompany him to his dressing-room at the theatre, 
and, for an hour before the play began, rub his 
head, as hard as she could, with hot napkins, till 
she produced copious perspiration ; and the harder 
he was rubbed, and the more he was temporarily 
annoyed by it, the more animation he felt in acting. 
This (as I thought it) harmless joke of mine, turned 
out a matter of serious importance to poor Mrs. 
.Wood; for a long time afterwards, whenever he 



66 REMINISCENCES OF 

had to act, particularly in any new part, he actually 
made her go to his dressing-room, as I had sug- 
gested, and rub away till she was ready to drop 
with fatigue, and he, with the annoyance which 
her exertions produced. The effect of the process 
upon his performance, however, did not, by any 
means, keep pace with the labour. 

During our stay in Edinburgh, we brought very 
good houses, and had two excellent benefits. My 
late friend Perry, proprietor of the Morning Chro- 
nicle, gave me several letters to his literary friends 
and others ; among whom was ]\Ir. Gillies, now 
Lord Gillies, whose brother is a merchant in 
London, and who shewed me many attentions. I 
had the honour also to be particularly noticed by 
his Grace the Duke of Queensberry, who was at 
Edinburgh for Leith Races. It was a novel sight 
to me, to see from the sands, horses at full speed, 
and ships in full sail, at no great distance from each 
other ; and the shore covered with gay equipages. 

I cannot omit mentioning the many pleasant days 
I spent with Signer Natali Corri, his wife, and 
sister. Signor Corri was the first singing-master in 
Edinburgh ; his wife and sister sang at the Sub- 
scription Concerts, which he carried on there with 
great eclat. They were natives of Strasburg and 
Alsace, and sang duets most pleasingly. Signor 
Corri had also a large magazine, for the sale of 



MICHAEL KELLY. 67 

music and musical instruments ; he was in partner- 
ship with his brother, a very worthy man, married 
to a beautiful woman, a native of Rome. At these 
concerts, I heard a Signer Urbani, a good professor, 
and, like his countryman, David Rizzio, very par- 
tial to Scotch melodies, some of which he sang very 
pleasingly, though in a falsetto voice. There was 
also a young Italian, of the name of Stabilini, 
a first-rate violin; and a Signor Cecchi, a good 
violoncello performer. I used to meet them at the 
house of the great Scotch physician, Dr. Cullum, 
who was devoted to music, and gave the professors 
of it the greatest encouragement. His hospitable 
mansion was always open to them, and his much- 
esteemed professional advice always gratuitously at 
their service. 

After enjoying a delightful and profitable ex- 
cursion, we took leave of our kind Edinburgh 
friends for Lancaster, and went, in our comfortable 
travelling-carriage, to visit the Lakes of Cumber- 
land and Westmoreland ; and an enchanting tour we 
had. 

We remained two days at Keswick. Lord Wil- 
liam Gordon was then at his picturesque cottage on 
the Lake, and did us the favour to give us an invi- 
tation, which we had great pleasure in accepting. 
In our way through York, we stopped at our hos- 
pitable friend, Tate Wilkinson's, and had a plea- 



03 REMINISCENCES OF 

sant day, with the exception of a slight quarrel be- 
tween Tate and his wife, a thing which will occur 
in the best regulated families. The latter was guilty 
of the enormous neglect of not having apple-sauce 
with a huge roasted goose. Tate, all dinner-time, 
exclaiming, " Fie ! Mrs. Wilkinson, oh ! fie !" 
" No apple-sauce, Ma'am !" " Mrs. W. is a 
mighty good woman, Ma'am !" " but goose with- 
out apple-sauce !" " Ugh !" 

We got to Lancaster in time for the assize week, 
during the whole of which we performed at the 
theatre to crowded houses. Nothing occurred to 
merit particular notice while we remained there. 

We also performed a few nights at Birmingham ; 
and while there, were on a visit at the house of Mr. 
Cox, a respectable, well-informed man ; a great 
book-collector, and very fond of theatricals. He 
had made an ample fortune in business, and was 
then on the point of retiring. The attentions which 
I received from him and his amiable lady, can never 
be forgotten by me ; nor can I omit mentioning Mr. 
William Macready, the manager of the Birming- 
ham Theatre, who, in theatrical business, I ever 
found honest, upright, obliging, clever, and friendly, 
and in all his dealings, whether Fate smiled or 
frowned, a man of punctuality and rectitude. I am 
extremely happy here to pay a just tribute to his 
worth. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 60 

Tor the opening of the winter season, we arrived 
at our house in Suffolk Street, in cheering health 
and spirits. 

About this time, we used to pass many pleasant 
evenings with Mrs. Robinson, the ci-devant beauti- 
ful Perdita, at her house in St. Jameses Place. She 
and Mrs. Crouch had a sincere esteem for each 
other ; she gave very pleasant petits soupers, where 
she and her daughter, with their wit and ^ood hu- 
mour, contrived to make the hours glide away in- 
sensibly ; I often talked with her of the many plea- 
sant hours T passed with her brother, Mr. Darby, 
at Leghorn, on my first arrival there. 

She produced, in November, at Drury Lane, 
a petite piece, entitled " Nobody ;" and I was sorry 
to see it condemned after the third night, though 
Bensley, Bannister, Barrymore, Miss Decamp, and 
Mrs. Jordan, exerted their talents to support it. 

On the 20th of November, Drury Lane Theatre 
lost one of its greatest props in a particular walk of 
the drama, in poor Baddely. On the evening before 
his death, he was taken ill as he was dressing for the 
character of Moses, in the " School for Scandal," 
which part was originally written for him. His 
Canton, in the " Clandestine Marriage," will ever 
be remembered with King's Lord Ogilby ; and in 
" Jews and Frenchmen," he wasVery good. He was 
a worthy man, although he was nick-named " Old 



70 REMINISCENCES OF 

Vinegar, 1 ' only from the excellent manner in which 
he acted a character of that name in CTKeefe's farce 
of " The Son-in-Law." In his younger days, he 
had been a cook, and an excellent cook, to my 
knowledge, he was, and moreover extremely proud 
of his skill in the culinary art. He had been cook 
to Foote, in whose service he imbibed a taste for the 
drama. He married a celebrated beauty, Miss 
Snow. He told me once, that when he was acting 
at the Haymarket, of which Foote was the pro- 
prietor, they had a quarrel, and Baddely challenged 
him to fight with swords. On receiving the chal- 
lenge, Foote said, " Hey ! what ! fight ! Oh ! 
the dog ! So I have taken the spit from my kitchen 
fire, and stuck it by his side ; and now the fellow 
wants to stick me with it." 

In his will, he left a twelfth-cake and wine for the 
performers of Drury Lane Theatre, of which they 
partake every Twelfth-night, in the Green Room, 
and drink to the memory of the donor. He had a 
habit of smacking his lips always when speaking. 
In allusion to this, Charles Bannister said to him 
one day at the School of Garrick (when boasting of 
his culinary qualifications), " My dear Baddely, 
every body must know that you have been a cook, 
for you always seem to be tasting your words." 

He bequeathed his house and premises, at Upper 
Moulsey, in Surrey, to Mrs. Baddely : and after her 



MICHAEL KELLY. 71 

death, these, and money arising from an annuity, 
to the Theatrical Fund of Drury Lane Theatre . 
the house, and premises belonging to it, at Moul- 
sey, to be an asylum for decayed actors. The house 
stands facing the Temple of Shakspeare, on Mr. 
Garrick's Lawn, at Hampton. The trustees of the 
fund, however, thought proper to sell it ; and it has 
been purchased by, and is now in the possession of, 
my friend, Mr. Savory, of Bond-street, at whose hos- 
pitable table I have many times been a welcome 
guest. In his parlour is an excellent likeness of 
Baddely, in* the character of Moses, in "The 
School for Scandal," painted by Zoffany ; and on a 
part of the premises are the boards of the old Drury 
Lane stage, on which the immortal Garrick displayed 
his unrivalled powers. It seems no unnatural coin- 
cidence, that the ci-devant cook's property should 
hane found a savoury purchaser. 

On the 20th of November, Cobb produced his 
opera of " The Cherokee ;" the music by Storace. 
The Cherokee chorus was one of the grandest ever 
composed : the effect was sublime. Mrs. Crouch 
acted very finely in it. Tom Welsh had a part 
which he played very impressively : the scenery and 
decorations were of the most splendid description. I 
performed the character of an English officer in it ; 
and had some good situations, and good songs. That 
delightful warbler, Mrs. Bland, in the character of 



72 REMINISCENCES OF 

a Welsh peasant, sang that ballad, afterwards so 
universally popular, " A little bird sang on a spray," 
with great simplicity and truth ; indeed, what did 
ghe not sing well ? As far as her powers went, she 
was perfect as an English ballad-singer. I remember 
dining one day with those two great musicians, Haydn 
and Pleyel, and requesting them to go to Drury 
Lane, and hear a female singer ; saying, that in my 
opinion no real judge of the art could find a single 
blemish in her style or taste. They went to hear 
Mrs. Bland, and told me, that my praise was not 
at all exaggerated. 

I have, at different times, composed a number of 
songs for her, and may safely say, that she never 
introduced a grace unseasonably, or one that was 
not full of taste and meaning. 

Mrs. Bland, when Miss Romanzini, first sang at 
Hughes's Riding School, now the Circus, in St 
jGeorge's Fields, in the spring of 1773 ; she then 
travelled with Breslau ; and made her first appear- 
ance at Drury Lane, the 24th of October, 1786, in 
" Richard Cceur de Lion." Her sensible manner 
of singing reminds me of an anecdote which Mozart 
once told me of the Emperor Joseph the Second, 
relative to himself: His Majesty, speaking of a 
piece of music of Mozart's, said to him, " Mozart, 
I like your music very much, but there are too many 
notes in Madame Lange's song." " Sire," replied 



MICHAEL KELLY. 73 

the composer, " there are just as many notes in it 
as there ought to be." 

I feel much pleasure in recording here an anec- 
dote, which must prove highly gratifying to a young 
lady, now engaged at Drury Lane Theatre, as well 
as to her friends. When Miss Wilson appeared at 
J)rury Lane Theatre, in " Artaxerxes," Mr. Elliston 
wished me to hear her, and give him my opinion of 
her. I was, at the time, too ill with the gout, to 
be able to attend the theatre. My old and valued 
friend, Madame Mara, was then in London. I 
wrote to her to call upon me, and requested her to 
go and hear Miss Wilson, to give me her true and 
candid opinion of her abilities, as I could not go 
myself; and after the performance, to return to me, 
and make her report ; which she did, and a favour- 
able one it was. " But," said she, " I was at Drury 
Lane, a few nights since, to see the pantomime ; 
there was a little girl, who sang a ballad, fc Up, 
Jack, and the day is your own ;' that girl, depend 
upon what I tell you, has one of the finest voices I 
ever heard ; and could I be induced to take a pupil, 
to bring forward on the stage, that girl should be the 
person of my choice." The young lady is Miss 
Povey ; and proud may she be of having been so 
mentioned by such a person as Madame Mara. 

Yet, with all her great skill and knowledge of 
.the world, Madame Mara was induced, by the 

VOL. II. E 



74 REMINISCENCES OF 

advice of some of her mistaken friends, to give a 
public concert at the King's Theatre, in her seventy- 
second year, when, in the course of nature, her 
powers had failed her. It was truly grievous to see 
such transcendent talents as she once possessed, so 
sunk so fallen. I used every effort in my power 
to prevent her committing herself, but in vain. 
Among other arguments to draw her from her pur- 
pose, I told her what happened to Mombelli, one of 
the first tenors of his day, who lost all his well-earned 
reputation and fame, by rashly performing the part 
of a lover, at the Pergola theatre, at Florence, in 
his seventieth year, having totally lost his voice. On 
the stage he was hissed ; and the following lines, 
lampooning his attempt, were chalked on his house- 
door, as well as upon the walls of the city : 

" All' eta di settanta, 
Non si AM A, nc si CANT A." 

. 
' 

With the great age of seventy, 
Singing and loving don't agree. 



Would she had taken the sage counsel of the 
Spanish poet, Balthazar Garcia, " Learn to retire 
from public situations with dignity." She was an 



MICHAEL KELLY. 75 

excellent, kind-hearted woman ; but, in this instance, 
certainly not well advised. 

On the 24th was produced, at Drury, Cumber- 
land's play of " The Wheel of Fortune." About 
three weeks previous to the bringing out of this 
play, I went into the prompter's room, and found 
Kemble, who was going to dine with me, sealing up 
a parcel. He said, " My dear Mic, wait a moment 
until I send off this to Cumberland; it is a comedy 
of his, which I write to tell him is accepted ; and, 
if I am not greatly mistaken, there is a character in 
it that will do something for me ; at least I feel 
that I can do something with it. Mind, you and 
Nancy (meaning Mrs. Crouch) must promise to see 
me act it the first night.'" We accordingly did, and 
were delighted ; and, ever after, considered Kemble, 
Penruddock ; and Penruddock, Kemble : indeed, 
the whole play was finely acted. Miss Farren's 
Emily, Mrs. PowelPs Woodville, King's 'Governor 
Tempest, R. Palmer's Sir David Daw, Palmer and 
Charles Kemble, and, though last not least, Suetfs 
Lawyer Weazle, were all excellent. 

I remember well, after poor Suetfs death, 
Kemble, in lamenting the event, saying to me, 
" My dear Mic, Penruddock has lost a powerful 
ally in Suett ; Sir, I have acted the part with many 
Weazles, and good ones too, but none of them could 
work up my passions to the pitch Suett did ; he 



76 REMINISCENCES OF 

had a comical impertinent way of thrusting his head 
into my face, which called forth all my irritable 
sensatinos ; the effect upon me was irresistible." 

About the middle of May, an opera was acted 
at Drury Lane, in which I had to perform an Irish 
character. My friend Johnstone took great pains 
to instruct me in the brogue, but I did not feel 
quite up to the mark; and, after all, it seems my 
vernacular phraseology was not the most perfect ; 
for, when the opera was over, Sheridan came into 
the green-room, and said, " Bravo ! Kelly ; very 
well, indeed ; upon my honour, I never before 
heard you speak such good English in all my life." 
This sarcastic compliment produced much laughter 
from the performers who heard him*. 

This season Miss Mellon made her first appear- 
ance. Mr. Sheridan had seen her the previous sea- 
son at Stafford, where she was acting ; she was 

* A similar criticism was made by the elder Colman, when 
he went to Ireland, chiefly to see the actors of the Dublin thea- 
tre. Among other plays, he saw there his own comedy of " The 
Jealous Wife." On being questioned, by a friend, how he was 
pleased with the acting of it, he replied, " Faith, I did not 
well understand what they were saying; for every man and wo. 
man in the play spoke with the most determined brogue, except 
the gentleman that acted Captain O'Cntter (the only Irish cha- 
racter in the piece) for he spoke the most pure and perfect 
English, throughout the whole of the performance, without a 
vestige of the brogue." 



MICHAEL KELLY. 77 

much patronised at that place by the leading fami- 
lies, particularly by Mr. Horton, an intimate elec- 
tioneering friend of Mr. Sheridan's. She was 
engaged at Drury Lane, and proved herself a 
valuable acquisition to our dramatic corps. She 
was a handsome girl, and much esteemed ; and in 
gratitude, I feel called upon to say, that, both as 
Miss Mellon and Mrs. Con Us, I have received from 
her the most marked and friendly attentions ; and 
am happy to have it in my power, thus publicly, 
to express my acknowledgments. 

The same season, the votaries of true comic hu- 
mour sustained an irreparable loss in the demise of 
poor Parsons ; his "health had been rapidly declining, 
but not his inimitable comic powers. On the even- 
ing of the nineteenth of January, he played Sir 
Fretful Plagiary, and died on the third of February. 
The following epitaph was written on him by Mr. 
Dibdin, Sen. 

" Here Parsons lies ; oft, on Life's busy stage, 

With Nature, reader, you have seen him vie; 
He friendship knew knew science knew the age ; 
Respected knew to live lamented, die !" 

At Drury Lane Theatre, March 12, 179<>, was 

j . i 

the first representation of the Iron Chest," written 
by my friend George Colman. The music, com- 
posed by Storace, was, I believe, the cause of his 



78 REMINISCENCES OF 

premature and lamented death. On the first re- 
hearsal, although labouring under a severe attack of 
gout and fever, after having been confined to his 
bed for many days, he insisted upon being wrapped 
up in blankets, and carried in a sedan-chair to the 
cold stage of the playhouse. The entreaties and 
prayers of his family were of no avail, go he would ; 
he went, and remained there to the end of the 
rehearsal. The agony I suffered, during the time, 
is beyond my power of description. He went home 
to his bed, whence he never rose again. The last 
twelve bars of music he ever wrote, were the subject 
of the song (and a beautiful subject it is), " When 
the robber his victim had noted;' 1 which I sang 
in the character of Captain Armstrong. I called 
upon him the night of the day in which he had 
been at the rehearsal; he sent for me to his bed- 
side, and pressing my hand, said, " My dear Mic, 
I have tried to finish your song, but find myself 
unable to accomplish it ; I must be ill, indeed, 
when I can't write for you, who have given so much 
energy to my compositions. I leave you the subject 
of your song, and beg you will finish it yourself; 
no one can do it better ; and my last request is, that 
you will let no one else meddle with it." Saying 
these words, he turned on his side, and fell into a 
slumber; and never, never did I see him more ! 
His memory will for ever live in the hearts of all 



MICHAEL KELLY. 79 

who have heard his compositions ; for the drafts of 
true genius, though they may not be honoured so 
soon as they come due, are sure to be paid with 
compound interest in the end : this is an old 
maxim, and, I hope, a true one. He died March 
the 16th, in the thirty-third year of his age. It is 
a singular coincidence, that three such great musical 
geniuses as Purcell, Mozart, and Storace, were 
nearly of the same age when fate ordained them to 
their early graves. 

On the 30th of the same month, was first per- 
formed, the opera of " Mahmoud," written by 
Prince Hoare ; the music chiefly by Storace. Pre- 
vious to the opera, the following lines were written, 
at the short notice of a few hours only, by the au- 
thor of the piece ; who, from his earliest days, was 
the bosjm friend of the gifted composer, both in 
Italy and in England. 

" When vain is every anxious hope to save, 
And genius sinks to an untimely grave ! 
The waken'd feelings of a generous mind, 
A momentary void consent to find. 
How difficult, alas! the task we try, 
The blank with equal value to supply. 
To-night we mourn a loved composer lost; 
By all lamented, but by us the most. 
Deprived, alas ! of that inspiring beam, 
That touch'd the tuneful lyre with fleeting gleam ; 
Yet what remains, and long, we trust, shall live, 
We aim, with anxious industry, to give. 



80 REMINISCENCES OF 

Imperfect, if you view th' intended plan, 
Accept it as we give, 'tis ail we can. 
Faults will, no doubt, too evidently glare, 

A i , i , '!il> 

And Haply teach you our regrets to share. 

But shall we humbly for compassion sne, 

And lift our hands, for pity, up to you ? uO 

fso ! Shall the gen'rous Briton, taught to bless 

His deadliest foe, when prostrate in distress, 

Await our voice, his pitying ear to call, 

When native genius, native virtues fall ? 

Oh ! be it still the honest Briton's boast, 

To shield the flow'rets of his native coast ; 

Unprompted, to protect their op'ning bloom, 

And zealous guard them, scatter'd o'er the tuiv. 

rr.1 , i P i /. 

The whole of the profits arising from the ope^ 
were generously given, by the author, to Storace^s 
widow and orphan. 

All the performers took the greatest p. 
justice to the posthumous work of the c 
Kemble's acting, as the hero of the piece, v,;> 

terly performance. The opera had a run of many 

t i i i i i - T i i ' 

nights, and was much applauded ; it had the power- 
ful* 'support of Mr. Braham, who made his . 

-Tk T J 

appearance in it at JJrury JLane, and saps; a hunting 1 

11 i 

cavatma, in a masterly style ; as well as a beautiiul 

ballad!, " From shades of nio;ht !" with great truth 

O1 'jjn. m WiTrJ. 

of expression, and lovely simplicity, Mr. Braham 

naur . , . , , J l -, 
was received with the greatest applause. And xje- 

f 1 1 **& U' * 

serfedly so, for there is no such singer, when h^ 

T i i i r i v e f?- " 

pleases ; he is, decidedly, the greatest vocalist of his 



MICHAEL KELLY. 81 

day ; and from a long professional intercourse with 
him, I ever found him replete with liberality and 
kindness, and ever ready to give his meed of ap- 
plause to real merit. 

On the 7th of April, Madame Banti took for her 
benefit, at the Opera, Cluck's grand serious opera of 
Alceste. Mr. Taylor, the then proprietor of the 
Opera House, and Madame Banti, made a request 
to Mr. Sheridan, to give me permission to act the 
principal part in the opera, which I had so often 
performed at Vienna, under the tuition of the great 
composer. The knowledge of my having success- 
fully performed it at that theatre, induced Madame 
Banti to ask me to act it at the Haymarket. I got 
permission, and the opera made so great a hit, that 
Mr. Taylor, with the consent of Mr. Sheridan, 
engaged me for twenty nights. Madame Banti^s 
performance of Alceste was a chef-d'oeuvre ; her 
acting sublime, her singing charming ; for twenty 
nights the opera drew crowded houses. Banti pos- 
sessed all the power of voice which she had when I 
heard her first at Venice her figure was much im- 
proved ; and, as a serious actress, she was unri- 
valled. She had wonderful natural powers, but, as 
I have already said, no great knowledge of music. 

It was the fashion of the day for the subscribers 
to the Opera to attend the rehearsals ; amongst 
others, the late Duke of Queensberry was a constant 

E5 



82 HEMINISCENCES OF 

attendant ; no weather kept him away there lie 
was, on the stage, muff and all. I had the pleasure, 
for many years, to be honoured with his peculiar 
notice ; and have been frequently invited to his hos- 
pitable table, both in Piccadilly, and at Richmond. 
In my intercourse with mankind, I never met his 
superior for worldly knowledge and acuteness ; he 
was a nobleman of polished manners, of the vieillc 
cour ; he had his foibles, it is true; but then, who 
has not ? On Tuesdays and Saturdays, he had 
generally a large dinner party of the French nobi- 
lity, who were obliged to seek shelter in this coun- 
try, from the horrors of the Revolution ; he was well 
aware that a French lady or gentleman is an dtses- 
poir 9 unless they can go to some spectacle ; and he 
used the following delicate mode of indulging them 
in their favourite amusjement, knowing that they 
were too poor to indulge themselves, and too proud 
to accept of pecuniary assistance. 

'After coffee had been handed round, he used to 
ask, " who is going to the Italian Opera to-night? 
I long to use my family privilege. 1 ' I was present 
one evening, when the Duchess de Pienne asked him 
what this privilege meant ? He said, it was that of 
writing admissions for the theatres to any amount he 
pleased, without entailing any expense. This was 
apparently a joyful hearing to the theatrical ama- 
teurs, and nine of the party went that evening to the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 83 

Opera with his written admissions. He had pre- 
viously made an arrangement with my worthy 
friend, Mr. Jewell, the Opera House treasurer, and 
also, as I understood, with other theatres, that his 
orders were always to be admitted, and the next 
morning sent to his steward, who had directions to 
pay the amount of the admissions which his Grace 
had sent in. This delicate manner of conferring a 
favour needs no comment. 

I never saw in any country such comfortable 
dinners as those of his Grace ; at his sideboard 
there was a person to carve every joint, and he 
never had more than three dishes at a time on his 
table ; but all were hot and comfortable, and the 
viands the most recherche. Ilis chief French cook, 
whom he denominated his officier de boucke, was a 
great artist, a real cordon bleu, who ought to have 
had, like Cardinal Wolsey's master-cook, a crimson 
velvet dress, with a collar and a gold chain. His 
wines too were of the most exquisite kind, for his 
Grace was a votary of Bacchus as well as Venus. 

He was passionately fond of music, and an ex- 
cellent judge of the art ; but his being very blind, 
and very deaf, were certainly somewhat against him. 
A favourite propensity of his, was, that of giving 
instructions in singing : he was kind enough to offer 
Mrs. Billington and myself, to teach us the songs of 
Polly and Macheath, in the Beggar's Opera ; and, 



84 .REMINISCENCES OF 

to humour him, we have often let him sing to us. 
It was extremely amusing to all parties, one person 
excepted, who always accompanied him on the 
piano-forte, and who lived in the house with him 
his name was Ireland ; but I always called him 
Job. 

His Grace asked me one day to dine with him, 
tete-a-tete ; after dinner, he told me, he had formed 
a resolution never to have more than one guest at & 
time ; the reason he gave was, that he had grown 
so deaf, that he could scarcely hear. " Had I" 
said he, " at table more than one person now, they 
would be talking one to the other, and I sitting by, 
not able to hear what they were talking about, 
which would be extremely provoking ; now, if I 
have but one to dine with me, that one must either 
talk to me, or hold his tongue." 

This season the Opera House was very attractive. 
I was stage manager ; Viotti, the celebrated violin 
player, was leader of the orchestra, and a masterly 
leader he was. He asked me one day to dine with 
him at the Crown and Anchor, in the Strand, to 
meet three friends of his, who formed an economical 
little dinner-club, which they held there once a 
month. I went, and found his friends three of the 
greatest revolutionists : Charles Laraeth, who had 
been President of the National Assembly ; Dupoefc, 
the popular orator of that time, also a Member of 



MICHAEL KELLY. 85 

the National Assembly, and who was the very 
person whom I had seen offer to hand the poor 
Queen of France out of her carriage, when brought 
prisoner back from Yarennes, which she indignantly 
refused; and the Duke D'Aiguillon, one of the 
twelve Peers of France, who, in former days, had 
an immense fortune, was a great patron of the arts, 
and so theatrical, that he had a box in every theatre 
in Paris. He was particularly fond of music, and 
had been a scholar of Viotti. I passed a pleasant 
day with these emigres, who were all men of high 
endowments, and truly polished manners ; nor did 
they seem at all depressed by change of : ckoirai- 
stances, all was vivacity and good humour. 

The Duke sat next to me at dinner. I asked 
him if he had seen Drury Lane Theatre ; his reply 
was, I have seen the outside of it, but I am now 
too poor to go to theatres ; for did I indulge in my 
favourite amusement, I should not be enabled to 
have the pleasure of meeting you and my worthy 
friends at dinner to-day I cannot afford both. 

I told him, that as manager of the Opera House, 
and musical director of Drury Lane Theatre, I 
should have great pleasure in giving him and his 
friends admissions nightly, for either of those thea- 
tres ; and that my box at the Opera House was at 
their service on the following Saturday, and I re- 
quested they would do me the honour to dine with 



86 REMINISCENCES OF 

me on that day, and afterwards visit it. They 
favoured me with their company, and much de- 
lighted they were : often and often afterwards did 
they dine and sup with me. I introduced them to 
Mr. Sheridan, and many of my friends. It was 
certainly, I thought, to be lamented, that men pos- 
sessing such amiable manners, should, from strong 
republican principles, bring themselves into mis- 
fortune ; but I had nothing to do with their politics : 
I only saw the bright side of their characters, and 
felt a sincere pleasure, as far as lay in my power, in 
administering, in my little way, comfort to those 
who were labouring under so sad a reverse of 
fortune ; for, in this country, the French noblesse 
would not associate with them. Even the Duke 
D'Aiguillon, though one of the highest noblemen of 
France, was never received by the Duke of Queens- 
berry, nor did he visit any where. 

One morning he called on me, and said he had a 
favour to beg of me. I requested him to command 
my services : he said, " My dear Kelly, I am under 
many obligations for your repeated acts of kindness 
and hospitality to me and my friends ; but still, 
though under a cloud, and labouring under mis- 
fortunes, I cannot forget that I am the Duke 
D'Aiguillon, and cannot stoop to borrow or beg 
from mortal; but I confess I am nearly reduced 
to my last shilling, yet still I retain my health and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 87 

spirits ; formerly, when I was a great amateur, I 
was particularly partial to copying music, it was 
then a source of amusement to me. Now, my good 
friend, the favour I am about to ask, is, that, siib 
rasa, you will get me music to copy for your thea- 
tres, upon the same terms as you would give to any 
common copyist, who was a stranger to you. I am 
now used to privation*, my wants are few ; though 
accustomed to palaces, I can content myself with a 
single bed-room up two pair of stairs ; and if you 
will grant my request, you will enable me to possess 
the high gratification of earning my morsel by the 
work of my hands." 

I was moved almost to tears, by the application, 
and was at a loss what to answer, but thought of 
what Lear says, 

" Take physic, pomp !" 

and " to what man may be reduced/ 1 I told him 
I thought I could procure him as much copying as 
he could do, and he appeared quite delighted ; and 
the next day I procured plenty for him. He rose 
by day-light to accomplish his taskwas at work 
all day and at night, full dressed, in the Opera 
House in the pit. While there, he felt himself 
Duke D'Aiguillon ; and no one ever suspected him 
to be a drudge in the morning, copying music for a 
shilling per sheet ; and strange to say, that his 
spirits never drooped : nine Englishmen out of ten. 



88 REMINISCENCES OF 

under such circumstances, would have destroyed 
themselves: but the transitory peace of mind he 
enjoyed was not of long duration ; an order came 
from the Alien Office for him arid his friends to 
leave England in two days; they took an affec- 
tionate leave of me : the Duke went to Hamburgh, 
and there was condemned to be shot. They told 
me that he died like a hero. 

He had a favourite Danish dog, a beautiful 
animal, which he consigned to my protection, until, 
as he told me, he had an opportunity to send for 
him with safety. I pledged myself to take every 
care of him, and never shall I forget his parting 
with this faithful animal ; it seemed as if the last 
link which held him to society was breaking ; the 
dog had been the faithful companion of his pros- 
perity his adversity ; he caressed, and shed a flood 
of tears on quitting it the scene was grievous ; but 
I did not then think that I should never see the 
Duke more. I took every care of his poor dog 
who, missing his kind master, after a little, refused 
all nourishment, and actually pined, and died. 
Yet he survived the being who had fed and che- 
rished him. 

On May 6th, 1796, Mr. Bensley, whom I am 
proud to have called my friend, took leave of the 
stage on his own benefit night, in the character of 
Evander, in the " Grecian Daughter :" he was a 



MICHAEL KELLY. 89 

good actor, and a perfect gentleman. In his 
younger days, he had been in the army, and I was 
told had been at the Havannah. I have seen him 
often, with great pleasure, act Prospero in the 
Tempest, and lago and Pierre: his Malvolio, in 
Twelfth Night, was considered a fine performance. 
He had a manner of rolling his eyes when speaking; 
and a habit, whenever he entered the green-room, 
of stirring the fire with great ceremony, secundum 
artem, in which habit, I was in the habit of imi- 
tating him ; he caught me once in the very fact, and 
joined heartily in the laugh against himself. 

I remember there was a tragedy brought out 
at Drury Lane, written by a hatter, which was 
completely condemned: towards the end of the 
play, Palmer and Bensley had in their characters 
to die upon the stage ; a torrent of hisses accom- 
panied their latter moments, and the curtain fell in 
the midst of the tumult. When the play was ov 
Palmer and Bensley came into the green-roorn ; 
and Palmer said to Bensley, " You see, Benfeley, 
the audience have settled * The Hatters/ " " So I 
perceive," answered Bensley; "and they did not 
spare the dyers? 

On Mr. Bensley's quitting the stage, he was ap- 
pointed barrack-master; and subsequently, a near 
relation of his, Sir William Bensley, Bart, died, 
and left him a very large fortune ; he then retired 



90 REMINISCENCES OF 

to Stanmore, where he died, regretted and respected 
by all who bad the pleasure of knowing him. 

My friend Elliston, (of whom Mrs. Crouch, it 
will be remembered, prognosticated at York, that he 
would one day become a distinguished actor,) made 
his debut at the Haymarket, on the 25th June, 
1796, in Octavian, in " The Mountaineers," and 
Vapour, in " My Grandmother." His admirable 
voice and excellent acting in both characters, stamped 
him, at once, a favourite, which ^he continues to this 
day ; I need hardly say, how very deservedly so. 

The same season, Thalia lost one of her most 
powerful supporters, by the demise of Mr. Dodd. 
He was an actor of the good old school. On my 
first appearance atDrury Lane, he performed the part 
of Jessamy, in <f Lionel and Clarissa;" and although 
then bordering on his sixtieth year, I never saw it so 
admirably represented ; indeed, all his fops were ex- 
cellent, particularly Lord Foppington, and Sparkish, 
in the " Country Girl." I have often seen him, 
with infinite pleasure, in Sir Andrew Ague Cheek, 
Abel Drugger, and Old Kecksey, in the " Irish 
Widow." He was an entertaining companion, very 
fond of convivial meetings ; he knew a vast number 
of comic songs, and was renomme for recounting 
good stories, although it must be confessed they 
were somewhat of the longest. He was a constant 
attendant of the Anacreontic Society, held at the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 91 

Crown and Anchor, in the Strand, which was 
admirably conducted by a set of bankers and 
merchants. They had a good concert in the early 
part of the evening, by a most excellent band, led 
by Cramer; after which, the company retired to 
the large room, where supper was provided. The 
principal vocal performers of the day were to be 
found there. Old Charles Bannister, after supper, 
uniformly sang, with powerful effect, " Anacreon 
in Heaven, 1 ' which was there originally sung by 
Webster. There were the best catches and glees, 
sung by Webbe, Danby, Dignum, Hobbs, Sedgwick, 
Suett, &c. relieved by some famous songs of DoddY 
I passed many delightful evenings in this society, 
and was extremely sorry when it was discontinued. 
I deeply regretted the death of my poor friend 
Dodd, and with true sorrow followed his remains to 
the grave. He was one of the original members of 
the School of Garrick, and always spoke of his 
great master with the highest veneration and respect. 

In the early part of this summer, I went to 
Dover Castle, on a visit to my worthy and esteemed 
friend, the Honourable Colonel North, who was 
then Deputy Governor. I passed three days de- 
lightfully in his endearing society. The coast of 
France is very distinctly seen from the windows in 
clear weather. 

One very fine morning, I was seated at a little 



92 REMINISCENCES OF 

distance from the Castle, looking at the opposite 
shore, and took my pencil and a little music book 
(which I always carried about me, to put clown 
any musical idea that might strike me,) from my 
pocket : a subject I thought pretty came across me, 
and I was writing it in the book, when one of the 
soldiers belonging to the Castle came behind me, 
and without the smallest ceremony, laid hold of me, 
saying, in a tremendous Tipperary brogue, " Ah, 
my tight fellow, have I caught you in the fact ? 
Och, Mr. Mounsieur, how got you here. Sir?" 

I began to laugh, but the Tipperary man of war 
said, " By the powers ! I'll teach you to laugh out 
of t'other side of your mouth, my fine fellow, in a 
minute or two." 

I asked what my offence was ? 

" What," said he, " have I not caught you 
taking views of the fortifications ? you seem mighty 
fond of looking at it, but, please the pigs, you don't 
get out of the black hole in it, in a little time ;" and, 
with all his might, he proceeded to surround rnc, 
and drag me to the donjon keep, accompanying 
each lusty pull with a volley of abuse. 

Luckily for me, before we got a great way on the 
road to durance vile, we met Colonel North, who, 
much to my delight, released me from the gripe of 
Old Tipperary, and his military ardour. lie 
laughed heartily at my adventure; but told me that 



MICHAEL KELLY. 93 

the soldier had done no more than his duty. " And 
you ought to have known that, Kelly,"" said the 
Colonel. " Making notes is a sure way of getting 
into a scrape ; and you should have bargained for 
the bars before you began." 

The next day, we went to his brother's, the Earl of 
Guilford's seat, at Waldershare, where we remained 
two days, and then returned to London. I then 
accompanied Mrs. Crouch to Cheltenham, where 
she had been ordered to drink the waters. Our 
excellent friend, the Colonel, promised to meet us 
there; and, punctual to his word, was there before 
us. We agreed, during our stay at this delightful 
place, to take a house together, and we were for- 
tunate enough to get a beautiful cottage, in the 
midst of corn-fields, then called Wyatt's Cottage ; 
there, indeed, I enjoyed his delightful society ; for 
in repartee and ready wit, who was his equal ? 

The Colonel was stinted by his medical adviser, 
while drinking the Cheltenham waters, not to 
exceed one pint of wine a day ; he promised not to 
exceed his pint, nor did he; but it was a Scotch 
pint; six of claret or port, which was his daily 
portion; white wine, at dinner, he said, went for 
nothing, though he flirted with the best part of a 
bottle of old Madeira every day. 

Here I had the pleasure of meeting an old friend 
of my father's, my eccentric countryman, the Earl 



94 REMINISCENCES OF 

of Howth, whose skill in coachmanship was so cele- 
brated. The very apex of his ambition the pride 
of his heart was, not only to be thought a coach- 
manlike Lord, but actually a coachman ; his wig 
his coat every part of his dress was a coachman's ; 
and in his conversation, he imitated the slang of the 
fraternity : but his actions, and manner of thinking, 
were those of a perfect gentleman ; he was upright, 
good-natured, and honourable. He rarely visited 
his beautiful place, near Dublin. He resided, in 
the winter, chiefly at Bath; and, in the summer, 
at Cheltenham, with his daughters, the Ladies St. 
Lawrence, and a particular friend of theirs, a Miss 
Georges, a lady of polished manners and education, 
respected by all who had the good fortune to be 
acquainted with her. 

The theatre at Cheltenham was, at that time, 
under the management of its proprietor, the eccen- 
tric Watson, who was a fellow of infinite jest and 
humour ; full of Thespian anecdotes, and perfectly 
master of the art of driving away loathed melancholy. 

Many a hearty laugh have I had with him : 
he was an Irishman, and had, although I say it 
w r ho should not say it, all the natural wit of 
his country about him. He was of a very respec- 
table family (Quakers) in Clonmell. In John 
Kemble's younger days, he was a near ally of his, 
and both belonged to a strolling company. They 



MICHAEL KELLY. 95 

lived, or rather, by Watson's account, starved 
together. At one time*, in Gloucestershire, they 
were left pennyless ; and after continued vicissi- 
tudes, Watson assured me, such was their distress, 
that at that time they were glad to get into a turnip 
field, and make a meal of its produce uncooked ; 
and, he added, it was while regaling on the raw 
vegetable, that they hit upon a scheme to recruit 
their finances; and a lucky turn-up it turned out. 
It was neither more nor less than that John Keuible 
should turn methodist preacher, and Watson per- 
form the part of clerk. 

Their scheme was organized ; and Tewkesburv 
was their first scene of action. They drew together, 
in a field, a numerous congregation ; and Kemble 
preached with such piety, and so much effect, that, 
positively, a large collection rewarded his labours. 
This anecdote, Kemble himself told me was per- 
fectly true. 

Watson had brought together, at Cheltenham, 
a respectable dramatic corps; he wished Mrs. 
Crouch and myself to perform for a limited num- 
ber of nights, and offered us a clear half of the 
receipts of the house, every night, and each of 
us a clear benefit; but as we were there for the 
benefit of health, I refused his liberal terms. 
Lord Howth, however, called on me, one day, 
and said, "My dear Kelly, every body is wishing 
2 



96 HEMIXISCENCES OF 

you would perform here for a few nights ; you 
will get a good deal of money ; and, in the name 
of fortune, why not pick up your crumbs; sure, 
it will be only just an amusement to you ; the house 
will always be full, and I will let the boxes for you 
myself." 

Such a good-natured offer was too tempting 
to be refused, and we agreed with Watson for 
six nights. We played to overflowing houses, 
and the noble box-keeper* fulfilled his part of the 
contract ; for on the morning of the first perform- 
ance, while the company were assembled in the 
Spa-room, after paying their devoirs to Mrs. Forty, 
there was his Lordship with the box-book in his 
hand, saying to one, " Now, my lady, remember 
you have got the stage-box ; as for the Countess, 
she can only have a second and third row ;" and 
so on. Nothing could exceed the warmth of his 
Lordship's heart, although he was so eccentric ; he 
even left his coach-box, to let boxes for me. 

I went one morning into a poulterer's shop, 
and found the Noble Earl buying some poultry. 
I ordered the poulterer to send rue home a fine 
goose, wished his Lordship good morning, and 
was walking homeward at a quick pace, when I 
heard my name hallooed out; and turning round 
to see who was calling me, I saw his Lordship 
in the middle of the High Street ; his Lordship 



MICHAEL KELLY. 97 

shouting out, with a determined Irish accent, 
" Kelly ! Kelly !* I say, Kelly ! Corn your goose ! 
corn your goose ! I tell you, now do, Kelly, corn 
him ! keep him in salt four days, and then boil 
him with a whisp of white cabbage; and, by 
the Powers, he'll be mighty fine eating." I took 
his Lordship's advice, and found it a delicious 
dish. 

One day I was saying to him, that I had a very 
bad sore throat ; he told me he had a never-failing 
recipe for a sore throat. His directions were, 
just before going to bed, to get scalding water, 
and the finest double-refined sugar, with two juicy 
lemons, and above all, some good old Jamaica rum ; 
and when in bed, to take a good joriim of it, 
as hot as bearable. 

" Why, my Lord," said I, " your prescription 
seems to me to be nothing more than punch." 
" And what is better for a sore throat than good 
punch ?" said his Lordship ; u good punch at night, 
and copious gargles of old Port by day, would 
cure any mortal disease in life." 

I passed some pleasant weeks at Cheltenham ; 
and, among other agreeable recollections, it is not 
the least to think, that I there formed an acquaint- 
ance with my excellent friend, Mr. Savory, now a 
celebrated chemist, in Bond-street, who, at that 
time, was under Mr. Cotter, the principal apothe- 

VOL. II. F 



98 REMINISCENCES OF 

cary and chemist at Cheltenham. I also had the 
advantage of originating a friendship with that 
great and worthy man, and friend to the human 
race, Dr. Jenner, who often did me the honour 
to take his dinner with me ; he wrote a very 
excellent Bacchanalian song, for which I com- 
posed the music. 

When I was about leaving Cheltenham, I was 
lamenting to the Doctor the loss of the Spa waters, 
which had done Mrs. Crouch and myself so much 
essential service; he told me, under an injunction 
of secrecy, (which I never violated during his life- 
time,) that I had no cause to regret the loss of the 
waters ; " for, depend upon it," said he, " the 
Cheltenham salts, which you can procure of Mr. 
Patheyrus, chemist, in Bond-street, and of him 
alone, are to the full as efficacious, and conducive to 
health, as the water from the well. This,"" con- 
cluded the excellent man, " is the candid opinion I 
give you. I should not wish to promulgate it, as it 
might prejudice many industrious people, by keep- 
ing company from the Spa, which I should be sorry 
should be the case." 

I repeat this opinion for the information of those 
who have it not in their power to go to the Chel- 
tenham Spa, either from want of time, or the means 
of accomplishing the journey there. 

I associated with many Irish families who came 



MICHAEL KELLY. 99 

to drink the waters, and had the pleasure of being 
introduced, by Colonel North, to Mr. Coutts, as 
his most particular friend. The introduction was 
very flattering to me ; and I had the pleasure, for 
many years, to be kindly remembered, and favoured 
by the notice and attentions of one, who was ever a 
liberal patron of the arts and sciences, and of those 
who professed them. 

I went to London, to meet Mr. Taylor, of the 
Opera House ; but Mrs. Crouch remained at Chel- 
tenham. Mr. Taylor wished to submit to His 
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales (who was 
then at Brighton), for His Royal Highness's appro- 
bation, a plan of alterations in the Opera House, 
for the ensuing season, and wished me to go down 
to Brighton with it, which I did. The day after I 
arrived there, I was honoured with an audience at 
the Pavilion, to which I was introduced by my kind 
friend and countryman, Colonel M'Mahon. 

I found, as I always had the good fortune to do, 
His Royal Highness every thing gracious, kind, 
and condescending ; a Prince who needs but to be 
known to be beloved and respected, for the rich 
variety of his talents, attainments, and knowledge, 
which seem to belong to every age and to every 
country. 

After a week^s delightful sojourn at Brighton, 
I returned to London ; and the following day took 



100 REMINISCENCES OF 

my seat upon the Cheltenham coach, to join Mrs. 
Crouch, who was waiting at Cheltenham till I 
returned to accompany her to London. I was full 
of life and spirits, and found some pleasant com- 
panions on the roof of the carriage ; and laugh, 
fun, and hoaxing, were the order of the day ; for 
although the latter word is of more modern origin, 
still the meaning was the same, and the joke as 
winning. 

About twelve miles from Cheltenham, near 
Northleach, a man (a native of the latter place) on 
the coach-box, said that the two men walking before 
us up the hill, were the gaoler of Northleach, and a 
man in his custody for debt. When we overtook 
them, the coach was moving at a very slow pace, 
and I could not resist the allurement of a quotation ; 
a trick I was ever prone to indulge in, w r hen it came 
in my way. Hallooing out aloud, and imitating, 
and my face looking like old MacklhVs, in " The 
Merchant of Venice, 1 ' I quoted Shylock's speech to 
the astonished Northleach prison-keeper : 



I do wonder, 



Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond to come abroad 
with him, at his request." 

" And what is that to you ?" quoth the gaoler, 
(with a face as red as a turkey-cock). " What 
business is it of yours, to ask me what I do ? If I 



MICHAEL KELLY. 101 

had you down here, I'd break' every bone in your 
body." 

I should have been sorry to be within his reach, 
for the varlet was tall, and had a striking appear- 
ance ; however, the coachman relieved me from his 
threats, by quickening his pace, laughing, as well as 
the passengers, while the infuriated gaoler was giving 
me a volley of abuse: however, to say truth, I 
deserved it for- my impudence. 

I passed some very pleasant days at Plymouth, 
and received many marked attentions from Mr. 
Hawker, an English gentleman who was Dutch 
Consul. He took me to see the French prisoners 
confined in Mill Prison; it was astonishing to 
witness the apparent gaiety of their minds, and the 
perfect happiness with which they were enjoying 
themselves at all kinds of games and gambols ; but 
the ingenuity of some was beyond my conception. 
They made toys of all descriptions, and sold them 
to the visitors of the prison. I bought from a 
French lieutenant the model of a ship, of his own 
making, completely rigged the workmanship was 
admirably good. Amongst other things which I 
saw there, was a trait of French honesty which 
amused me extremely. 

A fellow who was locked up, had a large bench 
in front of the place where he was confined, on 
which were several articles for sale ; an old man, 



102 ' BEMINISCENCES CXF 

who could speak a little English, stood by the side 1 
of them, and kept bawling out to all the passers-by: 

" Come here, Monsieur le Capitaine, look here, 
my pretty things Monsieur le Capitaine, come buy 
de pretty things for Madame.'" 1 

I went up to him, and wished to purchase a 
handsome writing desk, for which the spokesman 
asked four guineas. I refused to give so much, but 
offered him one ; the owner (who was locked up) 
in speaking to the salesman in French, told him 
to insist upon four guineas, adding, "I am sure 
you will get it ; Monsieur le Capitaine, there, looks 
very like a simpleton." 

I replied, that I would give no more than the 
guinea; and also speaking to him in French, 
which he had no notion I understood, told him that, 
simpleton as I was, I could purchase just such 
another writing desk for a louis d'or in Paris, either 
in the Palais Royal or on the Boulevards. 

He made me a low bow, and said, smiling, " Ma 
foi, Monsieur, vous avez de Fesprit et pour c,a 
for that, you shall have the desk for one guinea." 
I gave him the money, with a few complimentary 
observations upon his honesty and good manners. 

Having seen all I wished to see, I went to Ply- 
mouth Dock, with an intention of going into Corn- 
wall. On alighting from the chaise, I strolled about 
while dinner was preparing, gaping around me. I 



MICHAEL KELLY. 103 

found a gate open, and walked into a large yard, and 
seeing a person there, asked him the name of the 
place ? 

" What r said the man, " Don't you know?" 
I told him that I did not, but having seen -a 
large gate open, I had walked in. 

" Then, my good fellow," said the man, " take 
my advice, and walk out as fast as you can ; for 
if you are found examining the Dock Yard without 
permission, you will be forthwith lodged in the 
Mill Prison, whence you will not find it a very easy 
thing to get away. 1 ' 

I thanked my honest friend for his kind intelli- 
gence, and with a hop, step, and jump, was outside 
the gates of the Dock Yard in two minutes. I was 
afterwards informed, that I really had a narrow 
escape, for, as we were then at war, no stranger was 
allowed to enter without a special order from the 
Commissioner. 

I was very often at Mount Edgecumbe, where, 
at that time, the Somerset Militia were encamped. 
I had an invitation from the late Lord Cork, to dine 
with him at the mess, which I accepted, and that, 
indeed, was the place where I first met my kind 
friend, Sir Charles Bampfylde. From that day, 
until the period of his lamented death, I was fa- 
voured with his friendship. There dined at the 
mess that day, a young gentleman, a lieutenant in 



104 REMINISCENCES OF 

the navy, brother to a noble lord, who drank a 
great deal of wine, and subsequently accompanied 
me on my return to Dock, in the public passage 
boat. In the boat were some workmen of the Dock 
Yard, all of whom had an inveterate aversion to 
the officers of the navy, so much so, that desperate 
quarrels frequently occurred between them. My 
companion was excessively noisy and troublesome, 
abusing the people of Dock in the grossest and most 
unqualified terms. I was doing all in my power to 
persuade him to " moderate the rancour of his 
tongue,*" but in vain ; when he was half seas over, 
he became more and more violent in his vituperation 
of the Dockites. 

When we got on shore, and were walking up the 
hill, some half-dozen of our hard-fisted nautical 
companions fell upon us. I was pummelled about 
like a shuttle-cock, knocked down, and left senseless 
on the ground ; while my companion, who was the 
sole occasion of my being so cruelly mauled, appre- 
hensive, I conclude, of the anger of some strict 
disciplinarian in command, made all sail from the 
scene of action, and left me at the mercy of the 
cowardly ruffians ; for I was fool enough to 
stand my ground, as long as I was able the 
fruits of which vain resistance were, that I was 
carried to my hotel senseless, and confined to my 
bed for six weeks, attended by two medical men. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 105 

Independently of the drubbing with which they 
favoured me, I was the loser of 500?. which, like 
Father Foigard, in the "Beaux Stratagem," I 
intended to get ; for I had engagements in Liver- 
pool, Manchester, Birmingham, and Dublin, all of 
which I was obliged to relinquish in consequence ; 
so that I had good reason to remember Dock. 

Three years after this mishap, however, I ven- 
tured again to visit Plymouth. Mrs. Crouch and 
myself were then engaged to perform at the theatre. 
Mr. Foote, the father of the lovely Miss Foote, of 
Covent Garden Theatre, was then manager of Ply- 
mouth Theatre ; and Mr. Hughes, one of the pro- 
prietors of Sadler's Wells, manager of the theatre at 
Dock. With him, Mrs. Crouch and myself entered 
into an engagement, when we had finished at 
Plymouth, to perform a fortnight at Dock. The 
theatre was crowded every night we played. One 
evening, in " No Song, no Supper," Mrs. Crouch, 
who acted Margaretta, introduced a pretty ballad, 
which Dr. Arnold had composed for Miss Leak, at 
the Haymarket, entitled, " The Poor Little Gip- 
sey." Mrs. Crouch sang it delightfully, and it was 
every where a great favourite. While she was 
singing the line, " Spare a poor little gipsey a half- 
penny," a jolly tar hallooed from the pit, " That I 
will, my darling !" and threw a shilling on the stage. 



106 REMINISCENCES OP 

The liberality of honest Jack produced a roar of 
laughter from the audience. 

On our way to Plymouth, we passed a few very 
agreeable days at Bath, with my old friend and 
master, Rauzzini, who was the original adviser of 
the measure of sending me to Italy. Every thing 
at Pyramid (the name of his residence) breathed 
content and happiness ; professional people, of ail 
descriptions, were welcome to hi^ hospitable table,, 
which was always supplied with the best viands, and 
choicest wines. 

While we were staying with him, Madame Mara 
and Signora Storace were also his inmates, and every 
evening we had music of the best sort ; Rauzzini 
himself presiding at the piano-forte, and singing 
occasionally. He had lost the soprano part of his 
voice, but his lower contra alto tones were very fine, 
and his taste was exquisite ; he was also a delightful 
composer. It had been generally asserted and 
believed, that when he was engaged at the King^s 
Theatre as first soprano singer, most of the popular 
songs which he sang in Sacchini"s operas were com- 
posed by himself, although the credit of them was 
given to Sacchini ; but upon a severe quarrel be- 
tween them, Rauzzini, in a paper war, actually 
avowed himself the author of them, and accused 
Sacchini of the greatest ingratitude* 



MICHAEL KELLY. 107 

He retired to Bath, where he undertook to con- 
duct the concerts, and continued to reside for many 
years, beloved and respected by the inhabitants and 
visitors of that city. He had a great deal of teaching, 
which, added to the profits of his performances, 
enabled him to entertain his friends in the hospitable 
manner he did. The expenses of those perform- 
ances were to him comparatively small, as it was 
almost an article of faith amongst the profession to 
give their services gratis on such occasions. I have 
known Mrs. Billington renounce many profitable 
engagements in London, when Rauzzini has required 
the aid of her talents ; and at her own expense, travel 
to Bath, and back to London, as fast as four horses 
could carry her, without accepting the most trifling 
remuneration. The singers engaged at the King's 
Theatre were always allowed by the proprietors to 
give him their gratuitous assistance. 

Braham was his favourite scholar, and invariably 
made a point of attending; no pecuniary advan- 
tages derivable from any other source, ever induced 
him to relinquish the opportunity of serving his old 
master to the day of his death, a kindness which 
Rauzzini always spoke of in terms of the highest 
gratitude. Happy have I ever been to join in such 
praises, having always found Braham, from his first 
appearance at Drury Lane Theatre to the present 
moment, liberal and kind towards me, personally, 



108 REMINISCENCES OF 

and ever ready to give his support and approbation 
to merit wherever he found it. Aware, as he must 
be, of his own superior talent, he is above envy, 
and possesses professionally, and in every other sense 
of the words, a clear understanding, sound sense, 
and accurate judgment. 

After a week's sojourn at Bath, Mrs. Crouch and 
I took our departure for Plymouth. At Exeter we 
spent a pleasant day and night, though it was in the 
church-yard, where our hotel (one of the best in 
tli at city) was situated. I went to the cathedral, 
and heard a beautiful anthem of Jackson's finely 
sung ; he himself was at the organ. I went up to 
the organ-loft, and introduced myself to him ; he 
did me the favour to call at my hotel, and spend the 
evening with me. He was a man of great taste 
and musical research, but very eccentric. His me- 
lodies were pure and natural, and some of his madri- 
gals and anthems will live for ever, to the credit of 
he English school. He was a great friend of the 
late Mr. Linley, who largely partook of his style 
and genius. 

We arrived at Plymouth, and put up at the Pope^s 
Head. The theatre was then opened, under the ma- 
nagement of Mr. Jefferson, a good kind of man, who 
had formerly acted inferior parts with Mr. Garrick 
at Drury Lane, and was thought very like him. 
His eye was very expressive, and he was excessively. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 109 

proud to be considered like the great actor, of whom 
he spoke with enthusiasm. He was a martyr to 
gout, but a most entertaining man, and replete with 
anecdotes, which he told with peculiar humour. 

Before he became proprietor of the Plymouth 
theatre, he was manager of a strolling company of 
comedians, who acted on shares. When they were 
at Penzance, in Cornwall, performing in a barn, 
and miserably off for audiences, a French dancer, 
of the name of La Croix, who had come from St. 
Malo's, to seek his fortune in Plymouth, finding the 
theatre there shut, and hearing of Monsieur Jef- 
ferson's company at Penzance, formed a resolution 
to pack up his very " little all," and chasse on foot 
to join them. 

When he arrived at Penzance, he waited upon 
Mr. Jefferson, offered his services, and said, that he 
had no doubt he should draw crowded houses by 
the excellence of his performance ; for Monsieur La 
Croix, in his own opinion, was " Le Dieu de la 
danse." He was accordingly enrolled in the com- 
pany on the usual terms, that is to say, that all 
should share and share alike. He made his ap- 
pearance in a fine pas seul ; but, unluckily, in one- 
of his most graceful pirouettes, a very important 
part of his drapery, either from its age or slightness, 
or from the wonderful exertion of its wearer, became 
suddenly rent in a most unmendable manner. Shouts 



110 REMINISCENCES OF 

of laughter and applause followed, which Monsieur 
LaCroix imagined were given for his jumping; nor 
was the supposition at all unjustifiable, for the 
higher he jumped, the more he was applauded. .At 
last some one behind the scenes called him off the 
stage ; and he was so shocked at the mishap which 
had befallen him, that he could never be induced 
to appear again. But, in the sequel, when he came 
to receive the recompence of his exertions and ex- 
posure, the salvo for his shame amounted only to a 
few bits of candle ends, which he would not accept ; 
he said, he was a French artiste, and not a Russian, 
and therefore could not be expected to live on can" 
dies ; and that Monsieur Jeff (as he called the ma- 
nager) had imposed upon him with false pretences. 
The poor fellow made his way to Totness, where, 
as I heard, he got some scholars; but nothing 
would induce him to hear Mr. Jeff, or his tallow 
provender, ever spoken of again. 

After dinner, Mrs. Crouch and I went to the 
theatre ; it was Mrs. Clendining's benefit ; the play, 
Inkle and Yarico, and the house very full : Mrs. 
Clendining acted Yarico. She, at that time, be- 
longed to the Covent Garden company, and had a 
very good voice, and was a favourite with the town, 
in spite of a most implacable Irish brogue. The 
opera, on the whole, was well performed : Trueman, 
afterwards engaged at Drury Lane, was the vocal 



MICHAEL KELLY. Ill 

hero of the company ; and the band, for a provincial 
theatre, was really respectable. 

Many years afterwards, I was introduced to the 
late Mr. John Emery, the truly great comedian of 
Covent Garden Theatre, who told me that I had 
once caused him much alarm by having been present 
at the Plymouth theatre, where he was leader of the 
band. I found this highly-gifted actor a very fine 
musician, as well as a delightful artist. I have 
some marine pieces of his that are, in my opinion, 
admirable. 

On my return to town, I went to spend a few 
days with my friend George Column, at his beauti- 
ful cottage, called " Mountains ;" there I again met 
Colonel North, and Mr. Frederick Walsh, of the 
Custom House. At that time Mr. Dowton, the 
comedian, was acting at Tonbridge Wells, with his 
mother-in-law, the eccentric Mrs. Baker, who was 
proprietress of that theatre. Mr. Colman wrote to 
Mr. Cumberland to say, that on the following day 
we should be at Tonbridge Wells (nine miles from 
Mountains) for the purpose of seeing Mr. Dowton 
act ; and requested him to choose the character in 
which he should like us to see him. 

Mr. Cumberland selected Sheva, in his own 
play of " The Jew ;" and a part in the farce called 
" Hunt the Slipper." We were all delighted with 
Dowton's performance, particularly the Jew, which 



KEMINISCENCES OF 

was a very fine specimen of natural acting. I was 
so struck with it, that I called out to a gentleman, 
with whom I was acquainted, who was sitting within 
three boxes of our party, " This is fine acting : 
this, Til answer for it, will do. 1 ' My prognosti- 
cation, it seems, was so loudly expressed, that, as 
Dowton afterwards told me, he heard it on the 
stage. 

On my return to town, I told Mr. Sheridan what 
I thought of Dowton ; and my opinion being cor- 
roborated by George Colman, Dowton had an im- 
mediate offer to join the Drury Lane company, 
which he accepted, and made his first appearance 
in the same character of Sheva, on the 10th of 
October, 1796; his success was perfect, and he has 
continued, to this day, a brilliant ornament of his 
profession. 

Mr. Sheridan, whose praise in theatrical matters 
was fame, often told me, that he thought Dowton 
a sterling actor; andtthat if he ever wrote a comedy, 
the two performers for whom he should take most 
pains, would be Dowton and Jack Johnstone would 
that he had kept his promise ! 

Dowton, whom I have proved to be one of the 
kindest and besUhearted men in existence, was for- 
merly very passionate ; and when he believed him- 
self right, nothing could move him from his point. 
On one occasion, he thought himself slighted, and in 



MICHAEL KELLY. 113 

a huff, quitted his situation, and retired to the house 
of his old friend, Mr. Lee, of Bexley, a worthy, kind 
man, whose hospitality is proverbial in the county 
of Kent. 

Mr. Sheridan was very sorry to lose so excellent 
an actor, and wrote to him to return, but all in 
vain. I went down to Mr. Lee's house, at Mr. 
Sheridan's request, to see what / could do, and 
stopped there two days ; but Dowton was inexor- 
able, although every thing he desired would have 
been granted. 

When I returned to town, and told Mr. Sheridan 
of the failure of my mission, he said to me, " I 
compare Dowton to a spoiled child at school, who 
first cries for bread and butter that is given him ; 
when he has got that, he must have brown sugar 
put upon it it is sugared for him ; after that, he 
is not contented till he has glass windows cut out 
upon it." However, without having the bread, 
butter, brown sugar, or glass windows, by the in- 
terference of his staunch friend, Cumberland, and 
the advice of his equally staunch friend, Mr. Lee, 
he returned to his situation ; and Sheridan, on the 
occasion, ordered the revival of two comedies for 
him, The Good-natured Man, 11 and " The Cho- 
leric Man," but (as may be anticipated by those 
who knew Mr. Sheridan) neither of them, was ever 
revived. 



REMINISCENCES OP 

At Drury, the next musical piece brought out 
was the " Honey Moon,"" a comic opera, written 
and composed by Mr. William Linley, son of that 
excellent musician and composer, William Linley, 
patentee of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, and 
father-in-law to Mr. Sheridan. It was produced 
on the 7th of January, 1797, and reflected great 
credit on the talents of the author ; but owing to an 
unjust cabal, which was clearly proved to exist on 
the first night of its performance, it did not meet 
with that success to which its merits entitled it, and 
the author (with becoming spirit) withdrew it from 
the stage. " The Pavilion," a musical entertain- 
ment, written and composed also by Mr. William 
Linley, in which I performed a principal character, 
was brought out some time after the " Honey 
Moon,*" but did not meet with much greater success, 
and was also withdrawn for the same reason, though 
it had some beautiful music in it. The Linley 
family were all most highly gifted nature and art 
combined, did every thing for them. I remember 
once having the satisfaction of singing a duet with 
Mrs. Sheridan (William Linley 's sister), at her 
house in Bruton Street ; her voice, taste, and judg- 
ment, united to make her the rara avis of her day. 

The last time I beheld her heavenly countenance 
was at Bristol Hot Wells, where she went for the 
benefit of her health, having been attacked with a 



MICHAEL KELLY. 115 

severe pulmonary complaint, which baffled every 
effort of art to overcome it. She was, indeed, .what 
John Wilkes said of her, the most beautiful flower 
that ever grew in Nature's garden ; she breathed 
her last in the year 1792, in the thirty-eighth year 
of her age ; and was buried by the side of her sister, 
Mrs. Tickell, in the cathedral church of Wells. 

Her mother, a kind friendly woman, and in her 
youth reckoned beautiful, was a native of Wells. 
Miss Maria Linley, her sister, a delightful singer, 
died of a brain fever, in her grandfather's house at 
Bath. After one of the severest paroxysms of the 
dreadful complaint, she suddenly rose up in her 
bed, and began the song of, " I know that my Re- 
deemer liveth," in as full and clear a tone as when 
in perfect health. This extraordinary circumstance 
may be depended upon, as my friend, Mr. William 
Linley, her brother, stated the fact to me a short 
time since. 

I never beheld more poignant grief than Mr. 
Sheridan felt for the loss of his beloved wife ; and 
although the world, which knew him only as a pub- 
lic man, will perhaps scarcely credit the fact, I have 
seen him, night after night, sit and cry like a child, 
while I sang to him, at his desire, a pathetic little 
song of my composition, " They bore her to her 
grassy grave." 

On the 9th of February, 1797, was produced, 



116 REMINISCENCES OF 

for the first time, an interesting musical entertain- 
ment, called " A Friend in Need," written by 
Prince Hoare, which met with universal appro- 
bation ; it was my first appearance in England as 
a composer. 

On the 8th of April, Miss Parren, who had been 
for many years the favourite child of Thalia, and 
the elegant representative of fashionable life, quitted 
the stage, of which she had been so long one of the 
brightest ornaments, to become Countess of Derby. 
The theatre, on the occasion, was crowded to the 
ceiling ; and the applauses she received were as 
warm as they were deserved. Her demeanour in 
the theatre, was all affability and good nature ; and 
in every action she was ever kind and lady-like. 
Lady Teazle, and other characters of high life, 
she pourtrayed with all the vivid colouring of 
truth ; indeed, she had the advantage, like her 
great predecessor, Mrs. . Abington, of associating 
with the first society and the greatest wits of the 
age. 

It was in this year that Mr. Cumberland, the 
author, promised my friend, Jack Bannister, to 
write a comedy for his benefit, which was to be 
interspersed with songs, for Mrs. Jordan, which he 
wished me to compose. He was good enough to 
give Bannister and myself an invitation to spend a 
few days with him, at his house at Tonbridge 



MICHAEL KELLY. 117 

Wells, in order that he might read his comedy to 
us ; and as we were both interested in its success, we 
accepted his invitation ; but fearing that we might 
not find our residence with him quite so pleasant as 
we wished, we agreed, previously to leaving town, 
that Mrs. Crouch should write me a letter, stating, 
that Mr. Taylor requested me to return to London 
immediately, about some Opera concerns ; by which 
measure we could take our departure without giving 
offence to our host, if we did not like our quarters, 
or remain with him if we did. 

Jack Bannister rode down on horseback, and 
I mounted the top of the Tonbridge coach. Seated 
on the roof, were two very pretty girls and two 
livery servants ; this party I soon discovered were on 
the establishment of the Duchess of Leinster, fol- 
lowing her Grace to Tonbridge Wells, whither she 
had gone the day before. While ascending Moranf s 
Court Hill, we overtook ^Bannister 'on horseback, 
who called out to me, " What, Michael ! who 
would have expected to see you on the top of the 
stage ? I hope you have brought your curling irons 
with you ; I shall want my hair dressed before din- 
ner ; come to me to the Sussex Hotel. Tonbridge 
Weils is very full ; and, I dare say, you will get 
plenty of custom, both as a shaver and dresser. 1 ' 

At the conclusion of this harangue, he bade me 
good day, put spurs to his horse, and rode away. 



118 REMINISCENCES OF 

I resolved to follow up the joke ; and when the 
coach stopped at Seven Oaks, I sat down to dinner 
(my luncheon) with the servants, in the room allotted 
to outside passengers. We grew quite familiar ; 
the lady's maid and the two footmen promised me 
their protection, and declared that they would do 
every thing in their power to get me custom, although 
they could not invite me to call and see them at the 
Duchess's house, because nothing but the most rigid 
stinginess was practised there. " I suppose," said I 
" you can give one a glass of ale now and then ?" 

" Ale," said one of the footmen, " bless your 
heart, we never have ale, never see such a thing, 
nothing but small beer, I assure you." 

Until we arrived at our journey's end, the abigails 
and knights of the shoulder-knot kept entertaining 
me with anecdotes of the family, which were no^ 
very flattering I confess, but which I believe to have 
been false, having had for many years the pleasure 
of knowing her Grace the Duchess, and Mr. Ogilvie, 
her husband. 

On our parting where the coach set us down, we 
all vowed eternal friendship, and I got to Mr. Cum- 
berland's in time for dinner. The party consisted of 
myself, Bannister, Mrs. Cumberland, an agreeable 
well-informed old lady, and our host, who by-the- 
bye, during dinner, called his wife, mamma. We 
passed a pleasant evening enough, but wine was 



MICHAEL KELLY*. 119 

scarce ; however, what we had was excellent, and 
what was wanting in beverage, was amply supplied 
in converse sweet, and the delights of hearing the 
reading of a five-act comedy. 

Five acts of a play, read by its author, after tea, 
are at any time opiates of the most determined 
nature, even if one has risen late and moved little ; 
but with such, a predisposition to somnolency as I 
found the drive, the dust, the sun, the air, the din- 
ner, and a little sensible conversation had induced, 
what was to be expected ? Long before the end of 
the second act I was fast as a church a slight 
tendency to snoring, rendered this misfortune more 
appalling than it otherwise would have been ; and 
the numberless kicks which I received under the 
table from Bannister, served only to vary, by fits 
and starts, the melody with which nature chose to 
accompany my slumbers, . 

When it is recollected, that our host and reader / 
had served Sheridan as a model for Sir Fretful, it 
may be supposed that he was somewhat irritated by 
my inexcusable surrender of myself : but no ; he 
closed his proceedings and his manuscript at the end 
of the second act, and we adjourned to a rational 
supper upon a cold mutton bone, and dissipated in 
two tumblers of weak red wine and water. 

When the repast ended, the bard conducted us to 
our bed-rooms : the apartment in which I was to 



120 REMINISCENCES OF 

sleep, was his study ; he paid me the compliment 
to say, he had a little tent-bed put up there, which 
he always appropriated to his favourite guest. " The 
bookcase at the side/ 1 he added, " was filled with 
his own writings. 1 ' 

I bowed, and said, " I dare say, Sir, I shall 
sleep very soundly." 

" Ah ! very good," said he ; "I understand 
you, a hit, Sir, a palpable hit ; you mean, being 
so close to my writings, they will act as a soporific. 
You are a good soul, Mr. Kelly, but a very drowsy 
one God bless you you are a kind creature, to 
come into the country to listen to my nonsense 
buonas noches ! as we say in Spain good night ! 
I hope it w r ill be fine weather for you to walk about 
in the morning ; for I think, with Lord Falkland, 
who said he pitied unlearned gentlemen on a rainy 
day umph good night, God bless you, you are 
so kind." 

I could plainly perceive, that the old gentleman 
was not over- pleased, but I really had no intention of 
giving him offence. He was allowed, however, to 
be one of the most sensitive of men, when his own 
writings were spoken of; and, moreover, reckoned 
envious in the highest degree. 

He had an inveterate dislike to Mr. Sheridan, and 
would not allow him the praise of a good dramatic 
writer ; which, considering the ridicule Sheridan 



MICHAEL KELLY. 121 

had heaped upon him in " The Critic," is not so 
surprising. That piece was wormwood to him; he 
was also very sore at what Sheridan had said of him, 
before he drew his portrait in that character. 

The anecdote Mr. Sheridan told me. When 
the " School for Scandal" came out, Cumberland's 
children prevailed upon their father to take them 
to see it; they had the stage box their father 
was seated behind them ; and, as the story was told 
by a gentleman, a friend, of Sheridan's, who was 
close by, every time the children laughed at what 
was going on on the stage, he pinched them, and 
said, " What are you laughing at, my dear little 
folks ? You should not laugh, my angels ; there is 
nothing to laugh at." And then, in an under tone, 
" Keep still, you little dunces." 

Sheridan having been told of this, said, " It was 
very ungrateful in Cumberland to have been dis- 
pleased with his poor children, for laughing at my 
comedy ; for I went the other night to see his tra- 
gedy, and laughed at it from beginning to end." 

But with all the irritability which so frequently 
belongs to dramatists, Mr. Cumberland was a per- 
fect gentleman in his manners, and a good classical 
scholar. I was walking with him on the pantiles 
one morning, and took the opportunity of telling 
him (which was the truth) that his dramatic works 
were in great request at Vienna; and that -his 

VOL, IT. G 



REMINISCENCES OF 



" West Indian 11 and " Brothers, 11 particularly, were 
first-rate favourites; this pleased the old man so 
much, that (I flattered myself) it made him forget 
my drowsy propensities. 

He took me up to the top of Mount Ephraim, 
where we met the Duchess of Leinster and a lady, 
walking ; she had just got out of her carnage, and 
the two identical footmen who had been on the stage- 
coach with me, were walking behind her. She 
stopped to speak to Mr. Cumberland; and never 
shall I forget the countenance of the servants, when 
her Grace said, " Mr. Kelly, I am glad to see you ; 
have you been long here ?" 

I replied, " No, Madam, only two days.*" 

" Did you come down alone ?" said the Duchess. 

" Not entirely, 11 said I ; " I came down on the 
coach, and I assure you, met with some very 
pleasant, chatty companions, who amused me very 
much, by a variety of anecdotes about themselves, 
and their masters and mistresses. 11 While I was 
saying this, I kept looking at my two sworn friends, 
the footmen, who seemed struck with wonder and 
surprise. 

" Well, 11 said the Duchess, " I hope this place 
will agree with you. 1 ' 

I said, " I fear not, for I am extremely partial to 
malt liquor, and I am told, that it is execrable here ; 

and that in the very first houses, one meets with 

j 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

nothing but bad small beer." I again looked at my 
friends, and I am sure they wished me at Jericho ; 
for it was evident, by their countenances, that they 
were afraid I should betray their confidence ; and 
they seemed quite relieved when they saw me 
make my bow and walk away. 

A letter arrived the next morning, as we had 
planned, which called me to London ; we informed 
our host, that we were obliged to quit his hospitable 
roof early the following day. " My children," 
said he, " I regret that you must leave your old 
bard, but business must be attended to ; and as this 
is the last day I am to have the pleasure of your 
company, when you return from your evening's 
rambles on the pantiles, I will give you what I call 
a treat." 

After dinner, Bannister and myself went to the 
library. " What," said I to Bannister, " can be 
the treat Cumberland has promised us to night ? I 
suppose he took notice of your saying at dinner, that 
your favourite meal was supper ; and he intends, as 
we are going away to-morrow morning, to give us 
some little delicacies." Bannister professed entire 
ignorance, and some doubt; and on our returr 
from our walk, we found Cumberland in his parlour, 
waiting for us. As I had anticipated, the cloth 
was laid for supper, and in the middle of the table 

. , . fll JGfu 

was a large dish with a cover on it. 
2 



124? REMINISCENCES OF 

When we were seated, with appetites keen, and 
eyes fixed upon the mysterious dainty, our host, 
after some preparation, desired a servant to remove 
the cover, and on the dish lay another manuscript 
play. There, my boys," said he, " there is the 
treat which I promised you ; that, Sirs, is my 
Tiberius, in five acts ; and after we have had our 
sandwich and wine and water, I will read you every 
word of it. I am not vain, but I do think it 
by far the best play I ever wrote, and I think you'll 
say so." 

, The threat itself was horrible ; the Reading sauce 
was ill suited to the light supper, and neither poppy 
nor Mandragore, nor even the play of the preced- 
ing evening, would have been half so bad as his 
Tiberius ; but will the reader believe that it was 
no joke, but all in earnest, and that he actually 
fulfilled his horrid promise, and read the three first 
acts ? but seeing violent symptoms of our old com- 
plaint coming over us, he proposed that we should 
go to bed, and in the morning that he should treat 
us, before we started, by reading the fourth and 
fifth acts ; but we saved him the trouble, for we 
were off before he was out of his bed. Such are 
the perils and hair-breadth "scapes which attend the 
guests of dramatists who live in the country. 

The comedy which he read on the first evening 
of our visit, and which was called " The Last of 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



the Family,'" was brought out at Drury Lane, as 
he had promised, for Bannister's benefit, on the 8th 
of May, and was repeated four times with moderate 
success. It contained much elegant dialogue and 
correct sentiment, but the plot was too meagre and 
inartificial for effect. Bannister spoke a prologue 
in the character of Sheva, in " The Jew;" and 
Mrs. Jordan an epilogue with a song, which were 
much applauded. 

At this period, I left Suffolk Street, and took 
a house in Lisle Street, Leicester Square, which 
Mrs. Crouch fitted up according to her own excel- 
lent taste. Upon this scite, an Italian Opera House 
was to have been erected by a Mr. (TRyley, a 
clever and ingenious man, under the patronage of 
the Marquis of Salisbury (whose estate it was), but 
the project fell to the ground, and the theatre never 
rose from it. 

On the 14th June, a benefit was given at Coven t 
Garden Theatre, for the widows and children of 
the brave men who gloriously fell in action on the 
14th February, under the late Lord St. Vincent. 
The three theatres, on that night, combined their 
forces for the laudable purposes of charity. Mrs. 
Jordan played Peggy, in " The Country Girl ;" 
and we performers in " No Song, no Supper," 
gave our aid. The whole corps de ballet from the 
Opera House, represented the ballet of " Cupid 



126 REMINISCENCES OF 

and Psyche." Several performers of Covent Gar- 
den Theatre came forward; and Mrs. Abington, 
who had not appeared for many seasons, spoke a 
favourite epilogue. 

For Drury Lane, I composed an afterpiece, 
called "The Chimney Corner," translated from 
the French by Mr. Walsh Porter, an excellent, 
though a very eccentric man ; to whom, as I have 
already said, I was indebted for many attentions 
when at Worcester, and elsewhere. The scenery 
was very pretty, but the piece was not successful ; 
and after its third representation, was withdrawn. 

On the 14-th December, the celebrated dramatic 
romance, called " The Castle Spectre," was pro- 
duced at Drury Lane, written by M. G. Lewis, sq. 
It had a prodigious run ; John Kemble performed 
in it, as did Mrs. Jordan, and Mrs. Powell, who 
made a splendid spectre. The first night of its 
representation, the sinking of the Ghost in a flame 
of fire, and the beauty of the whole scene, had a 
most sublime effect. I composed the music for the 
piece; but for the situation in which the Ghost 
first appears in the oratory to her daughter, and in 
which the acting both of Mrs. Powell and Mrs. 
Jordan, without speaking, rivetted the audience, I 
selected the chacoone of Jomelli, as an accompa- 
niment to the action. This chacoone had been 
danced at Stutgard, by Vestris, and was thought an 



MICHAEL KELLY. 127 

odd choice of mine for so solemn a scene ; but the 
effect which it produced warranted the experiment. 

Mr. M. Lewis, the author of this drama, though 
eccentric, had a great deal of genius, I knew him 
well, and have passed many pleasant hours in his 
society. I composed his operas of " Adelmorn 
the Outlaw ;" " The Wood Daemon ;" " Venoni ;" 
" Adelgitha ;" all for Drury Lane ; and a romantic 
drama, which he never brought forward, called 
" Zoroaster." The last I composed was, " One 
o'Clock," produced at the Lyceum. Of all his 
dramas, the " Castle Spectre" was his favourite, 
perhaps from its having been the most attractive 
and popular ; and yet, it has been said, it was the 
indirect cause of his death. 

After his father's decease he went to Jamaica, to 
visit his large estates. When there, for the amuse- 
ment of his slaves, he caused his favourite drama, 
" The Castle Spectre," to be performed ; they were 
delighted, but of all parts which struck them, that 
which delighted them most was the character of 
Hassan, the black. He used indiscreetly to mix 
with these people in the hours of recreation, and 
seemed, from his mistaken urbanity and ill-judged 
condescension, to be their very idol. Presuming 
on indulgence, which they were not prepared to 
feel or appreciate, they petitioned him to emancipate 
them. He told them, that during his lifetime it 



128 REMINISCENCES OF 

could not be done ; but gave them a solemn premise) 
that at his death, they should have their freedom. 
Alas ! it was a fatal promise for him, for on the 
passage homeward he died ; it has been said, by 
poison, administered by three of his favourite black 
brethren, whom he was bringing to England to make 
free British subjects of; and who, thinking that by 
killing their master they should gain their promised 
liberty, in return for all his liberal treatment, put 
an end to his existence at the first favourable oppor- 
tunity. 

This anecdote I received from a gentleman who 
was at Jamaica when Mr. Lewis sailed for England, 
and I relate it as I heard it, without pledging 
myself to its entire authenticity. 

It is, however, notorious, that he died at sea; 
and it has often been remarked, that the death of 
a person so well known in the circles of literature 
and fashion as he was, never created so slight a 
sensation. This evidently arose from circumstances 
which had removed him from the immediate world 
with which he had been accustomed to mix ; and 
having been already absent from it for a length of 
time, his departure from the general world, was 
neither felt nor commented upon. 

I once received a command from his present 
Majesty, when Prince of Wales, to compose a simple 
English ballad for him ; and I had his gracious 



MICHAEL KELLY. 129 

permission to publish it, as composed for His Hoyal 
Highness, and dedicate it to him. I applied to my 
friend Lewis to write me one, which he did. The 
song was very popular, and sung by Incledon, at 
Covent Garden Theatre. The last verse was so 
applicable to the fate of its author, that I cannot 
resist giving the words. 

TO-MORROW, 

A Ballad, written by M. G. LEWIS, Esq. and composed by MICH A EL 
KELLY, expressly fur His ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF 
WALES. 

I. 

A bankrupt in trade, fortune frowning on shore, 

All lost save uiy spirit and honour ; 
No choice being left, but to take to the oar, 

I engaged in the Mars, Captain Connor. 
But the winds call me some few words to say, 

To Polly these moments I borrow, 
For surely she grieves I leave her to-daj-, 

And must sail on the salt seas to-morrow. 

IT. 

Nay, weep not, though Fortune her smile now denies, 

Time may soften the gipsy's displeasure ; 
Perhaps she may throw in my way some rich prize, 

And send me home loaded with treasure. 
If so lucky, oh! doubt not, without more delay, 

Will I hasten to banish your sorrow, 
And bring back a heart that adores you to-day, 

And will love you as dearly to-morrow. 



130 REMINISCENCES OF 

III. 
But, ah ! the fond hope may prove fruitless and vain, 

Which my bosom now ventures to cherish ; 
In some perilous fight I may haply be slain, 

Or, o'erwhelm'd, in the ocean may perish. 
Should such he the fate of poor Tom, deigu to pay 

To his loss a fit tribute of sorrow, 
And sometimes remember our parting to-day, 

Should a wave be his coffin to-morrow. 

Mr. Lewis had many advantages as an author ; 
he was a good German, understood Spanish, and 
was perfect master of French and Italian. 

After the success of the " Castle Spectre/' I 
determined to endeavour to get the French pro- 
gramme of " Blue Beard" (which I had brought 
from Paris) dramatized. I accordingly called upon 
my valued friend, George Colman, and told him that 
I had brought him the outline of a French romance, 
which, I believed, if he would undertake to write it, 
would prove higMy successful. I told him moreover, 
that my object was to endeavour to establish my 
name as a composer, by furnishing the music for it ; 
that I was perfectly sure a week's work would 
accomplish the literary part of the two acts, for 
which I would give him a couple of hundred 
pounds. 

After having discussed the subject, and two 
bottles of w r ine, the witty dramatist agreed to 
my terms, and I promised to accompany him to his 



MICHAEL KELLY. 131 

country-house, and remain with him for a week ; I 

did so, and before the week was ended, the piece 

i 11 11 

was complete, and those who have seen it, and 

who has not ? will bear testimony to , the admirable 
manner in which he executed his task. 

The drama was immediately accepted at Drury 
Lane ; orders were issued to the machinists, paint- 
ers, and decorators, to bring it forward with the 
greatest possible splendour and magnificence ; and 
it must be admitted, that nothing could exceed its 
brilliancy ; the music, which fortunately became 
extremely popukr, I composed, with the exception 
of two selected pieces, and the success of the whole 
was beyond expectation and precedent. It may be 
worth noticing, that the Blue Beard, who rode the 
elephant in perspective over the mountains, was 
little Edmund Kean, who, at that time, little 
thought he should become a first class actor. 

The 16th January, 1798, was the first night of 
its production. From the bungling of the carpen- 
ters, and the machinery going all wrong, at one 
time, as it drew near the conclusion, I gave it up as 
lost: but never shall I forget the relief I expe- 
rienced when Miss Decamp sang, " I see them 
gallopping ! I see them gallopping !" She gave it 
with such irresistible force of expression, as to call 
from the audience loud and continued shouts of 
applause. 



132 REMINISCENCES OF 

At the end of the piece, when Blue Beard is slain 
by Selim, a most ludicrous scene took place. Where 
Blue Beard sinks under the stage, a skeleton rises, 
which, when seen by the audience, was to sink down 
again ; but not one inch would the said skeleton 
move. I, who had just been killing Blue Beard, 
totally forgetting where I was, ran up with my 
drawn sabre, and pummelled the poor skeleton's 
head with all my might, vociferating, until he dis- 
appeared, loud enough to be heard by the whole 
house, " D n you ! d n you ! why don't you go 
down ?" The audience were in roars of laughter 
at this ridiculous scene, but good-naturedly ap- 
peared to enter into the feelings of an infuriated 
composer. 

The next day, the piece was much curtailed ; the 
scenery and machinery were quite perfect ; and, on 
its next representation, it was received with the most 
unqualified approbation, by overflowing houses, and 
has kept its standing for six-and- twenty years. The 
music had an unparalleled sale, but I could not 
escape the shafts of envy and malice. The pro- 
fessional, would-be theatrical composers, the music- 
sellers and their friends, gave out that the music was 
not mine, and that I had stolen it from other com- 
posers. But I laughed them to scorn; conscious 
that I never even selected a piece from any com- 
poser to which, when I printed it, I did not affix his 



MICHAEL KELLY. 133 

name ; always bearing in mind what Colley Gibber 
tells us of himself, that when he produced his first 
comedy, which was successful, of " Love's Last 
Shift/ 1 his enemies gave out that it was not his 
own ; Gibber said, if they knew the person to whom 
it really belonged, he had been true to his trust, for 
he had never yet revealed the secret. The Italian 
proverb was ever present to my mind, which says, 

Lasciategli dire, pure die 
Lasciamo fare. 

In English : 

Let them go on saying, 

So they let me go on doing *. 

In the grand march, where Blue Beard comes 
over the mountain, there was to be a military band. 

* The second act of Blue Beard opened with a view of the 
Spain's horses, at a distance ; these horses were admirably made 
of pasteboard, and answered every purpose for which they were 
wanted. One morning, Mr. Sheridan, John Kemble, and myself, 
went to the property-room ef Drury Lane Theatre, and there 
found Johnston, the able and ingenious machinist, at work upon 
the horses, and on the point of beginning the elephant, which 
was to carry Blue Beard. Mr. Sheridan said to Johnston, 
" Don't you think, Johnston, you had better go to Pidcock's, at 
Exeter 'Change, and hire an elephant fora number of nights?" 
" Not I, Sir," replied the enthusiastic machinist ; "if I cannot 
make a better elephant than that at Exeter 'Change, I deserve 
to be hanged." 



134? REMINISCENCES OF 

I was not sufficiently conversant with wind instru- 
ments ; and therefore I went to Mr. Eley, a Ger- 
man, and Master of the hand of the guards. I took 
my melody to him, and he put the parts to it most 
delightfully. A considerable bet was made, that 
the melody was his, and not mine ; to decide the 
wager, and put the matter at rest, I was induced, 
after twenty-two years had elapsed, to write to 
Mr. Eley, and received his answer, a copy of which 
I insert: 

July 18th, 1821. 

48, Frith Street, Soho. 
DEAR SIR, 

I received your letter concerning the march in Blue 
Beard, of which you gave to me the melody, to put parts 
for the orchestra wind instruments, to which I added some part 
to finish the trio, and to lead into the next chorus. I wrote this 
score in the. music-room, at Covent Garden Theatre, during the 
acts of the play, which several of the orchestra did see, and con- 
cluded it was my melody ; though I assured them it was not ; 
from whence this error has arose. 

I remain, dear Sir, 

Most truly yours, 

R.T.ELEY. 

' 

I was now finally settled in my house in Lisle 
Street, and about the same period, my esteemed 
friend, Mr. Thomas Philips, the singer, called on 
me, and wished me to take him as a pupil, and 
offered me a most tempting premium, but I was too 



MICHAEL KELLY. 135 

much occupied to accept it. He went to Dr. Ar- 
nold, under whose able instruction he became a 
sound musician, and an accomplished singer ; he is 
still in the profession, and by far the very best acting 
singer on the English stage: to any profession 
which he had embraced, he would have been an 
ornament; his conduct is ever honourable, his 
feelings always gentlemanly. 

About the same time, a less agreeable incident 
occurred to me, which, although purely of a do- 
mestic nature, may be serviceably mentioned here, 
in order to put others upon their guard, under 
similar circumstances. I had advertised in the 
newspapers, that I was in want of a man-servant ; 
a middle-aged man came after the place an Irish- 
man. He said he had lived with a gentleman of 
fortune, of the name of Pritchard, who resided 
chiefly at his country house, in Epping Forest, but 
was often at an hotel in South Molton Street ; if I 
could make it convenient to call there the next day, 
he would be in town, and I might get his character. 
I went the next day to the hotel; the waiter in- 
formed me that Mr. Pritchard had been there, and 
waited for me as long as he could, but would call 
upon me in Lisle Street. When I returned to 
dinner, Mrs. Crouch told me that an elderly gentle- 
man, in deep mourning, of the name of Pritchard, 
had called upon me, in a job-carriage. She de- 



REMINISCENCES OF 

scribed him as a particularly interesting old gentle- 
man. He gave the Irishman an excellent character, 
and said that he should not have parted with him 
upon any account, but that having recently be- 
come a widower, he felt it necessary to reduce his 
establishment. 

Mrs. Crouch gave so favourable a description of 
the " elderly gentleman," and the elderly gentle- 
man had given her such a favourable description of 
his Irish servant, that we were perfectly satisfied, and 
the man was directed to come to his place. 

After he had been in my service some days (it 
was in the winter time), Mrs. Crouch's own maid 
came into my room, about four o'clock in the morn- 
ing, and said she heard such a noise in the passage, 
as convinced her that somebody was endeavouring 
to break into the house. 

I rose, and crept softly to the head of the stairs, 
and listened, when I heard the respectable Hiber- 
nian protege of the highly respectable elderly gen- 
tleman from Epping Forest, say, through the key- 
hole of the street-door, " Be quiet ! the maid-ser- 
vants are not gone to bed ; come back in an hour ; 
the plate is in the back drawing-room. 1 ' This 
was pretty conclusive evidence of the liberal inten- 
tions of my new servant, touching the disposition of 
my property. I immediately got my sword, and 
proceeded to the passage, where I found the object 



MICHAEL KELLY. 137 

of my search. I told him that if he stirred one 
inch, I would run him through the hody. In the 
mean time, one of the maids called a watchman, and 
the culprit was consigned to the coal cellar for the 
rest of the night. 

In the morning, I consulted Mr. Holloway, my 
solicitor, as to my future conduct in the husiness ; 
and he knowing, professionally, the difficulties, * 

doubts, and expense of prosecuting and punishing 
criminals, advised me to profit by my experience, 
and turn the fellow away ; I followed his counsel, 
and discharged my servant. 

One morning, about six weeks afterwards, while 
I was at the Opera House, superintending a re- 
hearsal, a Bow Street officer came to me from Mr. 
Bond, with his compliments, to request my imme- 
diate attendance at the Police Office. I obeyed the 
magistrate's wishes, and to my great astonishment, 
found seated on the bench, beside the magistrates, 
Mrs. Crouch, and her sister, Mrs. Horrebow ; my 
ci-devant Hibernian servant at the bar, in custody, 
in company with his ally, the respectable elderly 
gentleman, who had so liberally given his friend, 
that which he had not himself a character. He 
was, however, no longer dressed in mourning, but, 
in a light-coloured coat, all in tatters, looking quite 
miserable. 

It appeared that, through the recommendation 



138 REMINISCENCES OF 

of Mr. Pritchard, the worthy Irishman got into 
the service of a clergyman at Clerkenwell, into 
whose house, one night, the family being all at 
rest, he admitted two thieves, who stripped it of 
every thing moveable. Upon closer examination 
of the circumstances, it turned out, that he be- 
longed to a gang of housebreakers, who kept 
Mr. Pritchard in pay for the express purpose of 
giving false characters. Mr. Pritchard was sent to 
Newgate : and the Irishman, having been found 
guilty at the Old Bailey, was hanged, after having 
confessed the commission of innumerable atrocities. 

As I before said, I relate this to serve as a 
caution to my readers against receiving the cha- 
racters of servants from persons to whom they 
have not a respectable reference, however respect- 
able their personal appearance, or however amiable 
or gentlemanly their manner. 

This summer I took a cottage at Battersea, and 
accepted an engagement for part of the season, at 
Column's theatre, in order to introduce a pupil of 
Mrs. Crouch, a Miss Griffiths, who afterwards 
married a Mr. Stewart, a comic performer on tne 
Dublin Stage. She played Polly, at the Hay- 
market, to my Macheath, and Clarissa to my 
Lionel ; she was a girl of great promise, and 
becoming a great favourite. She was the daughter 
of the stage-door keeper of the Edinburgh theatre, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 139 

and was employed about the house, to sweep 
the stage, &c. when Mrs. Crouch and myself 
acted at Edinburgh. She was so delighted with 
>Mrs. Crouch's performance, that some time after 
r w had quitted the theatre, without intimating 
her intention to her father, or any person be- 
longing to her, she travelled on foot all the way 
from Edinburgh to London, and found out Mrs. 
Crouch in Lisla Street, who took her under her 
tuition and patronage, and bestowed the greatest 
pains in instructing her. She had a sweet voice, 
a fine ear, and a great share of intellect. 

On the 2nd of August, the stage had an irrepa- 
rable loss, by the death of that excellent actor, 
John Palmer, who expired on the stage, while 
acting in " The Stranger," just as he uttered 

" There is another, and a better world !" 

- 
A similar melancholy event happened in the 

year 1758, when Joseph Pethren, playing the 
Duke, in u Measure for Measure," dropped down 
dead, after repeating these words : 

"Reason thus with life If I do lose thee, I lose a thing 
that none but fools would keep ; a breath thou art." 

Alas ! poor Palmer ( his fate was a lamentable 
one; he had been continually involved in diffi- 



140 REMINISCENCES OF 

culties, brought on him by struggling to support 
and educate a numerous family; and at the very 
moment that a hope of extrication from his diffi- 
culties gleamed upon him, he sank into the grave : 
for it is perhaps not generally known, that two 
days previously to his going to Liverpool, at my 
house, and I may safely say, through my influence, 
Mr. Sheridan appointed him stage-manager of 
Drury Lane Theatre, with a stipend of 400Z. per 
annum, exclusive of his salary as an actor ; and 
commissioned me to be the bearer of the pleasing 
intelligence to him. 

The next morning, when I was singing a song at 
rehearsal, at the Haymarket, Palmer, who had been 
in the country, came on the stage to speak to one of 
the actors; when I espied him, without stopping 
the band, I went on singing the air ; but, for the 
right words of it, substituted the following : 

" My good Jack Palmer, don't go away ; 
I've got something pleasing to you to say." 

This piece of sublime poetry produced a hearty 
laugh. I informed -him of the appointment, with 
which, poor fellow, he was truly delighted ; it was 
indeed, the very summit of his hopes and wishes. 
That evening he set off for Liverpool, whence he 
never returned. It was supposed, that the death 



MICHAEL KELLY. 141 

of his youngest boy, on whom he doated, broke 
his heart. 

No actor was ever more generally efficient; 
in some characters he was excellent, in none 
indifferent. His acting, in " Joseph Surface ;" 
"The Suicide;" Stukely, in "The Gamester; 1 ' 
Dionysius, in " The Grecian Daughter ;" Young 
Wilding, in " The Liar ;" Sir Toby Belch, in 
" Twelfth Night,' 1 was perfection. Mr. Aickin, 
the Liverpool manager, gave a benefit at his 
theatre, for the orphan children ; Mr. Colman 
gave his company for the same laudable purpose ; 
the Opera House was lent them, as Mr. Colman's 
theatre was not sufficiently large.- Drury Lane 
Theatre opened on the loth of September, with 
" The Stranger, 1 ' and " The Citizen, 11 for the 
benefit of his orphan family ; the house overflowed 
in every part ; and there were a number of hand- 
some presents made them. The receipts of the 
night were upwards of SOO/. ; a just tribute to 
the talents of their unfortunate father. 

This benefit has recently been referred to publicly, 
in consequence of the melancholy occurrence which 
awakened a fresh interest in the public for one 
of the surviving sons. An allusion was made by 
Mr. Palmer, Jun, to the non-payment of 'the receipts 
of the house by Mr. Sheridan ; but from a corres- 
pondence which appeared in the newspapers, it 
seems that the allegation was founded on a mistake. 



142 REMINISCENCES OF 

The next musical piece I produced at Drury 
Lane was in conjunction witli Mr. Dusseck, the 
celebrated piano-forte player ; he composed the 
serious part of it, I the comic. What he did, 
was masterly and effective. The piece was entitled, 
4< The Captive of Spilburg;" the story from the 
French piece, Camille ; ou, le Souterrain ;" it 
was ably managed by Prince Hoare, and had a run 
of seventeen nights. My next musical productions 
were in a play taken from Mr. Lewis's romance of 
" The Monk," by Mr. Boaden, and performed at 
Drury Lane, called " Aurelio and Miranda." I 
thought there was a great deal of merit in the 
writing ; but it was only acted six nights : many 
thought it indecorous to represent a church on the 
stage (which, by the way, was a fine specimen of 
the art, painted by Capon). But the powerful 
objection was, the unearthly appearance of Kemble, 
as the Monk. I never shall forget his attitude im- 
mediately after his entrance ; his dress the look ." 
the tout ensemble struck me to be more than 
human. He was hailed with the most rapturous 
applause ; but he stood motionless, with uplifted 
eyes, and apparently regardless of the public tribute. 
The great sums of money produced to the theatre 
by " Blue Beard," induced the Drury Lane pro- 
prietors to prevail on Mr. Colman to write a musical 
afterpiece, to vie with it in splendour. The piece 
was entitled, " Feudal Times ; or, The Banquet 



MICHAEL KELLY. 145 

Gallery.*' I composed the whole of the music for 
it. Although the scenery was grand, and the piece 
well acted, it was not so successful as Blue Beard ; 
although performed, in the course of the season, for 
many nights. It was brought out in January 1799. 

On the 5th of April, 1799, the musical world 
had to regret the demise of the veteran Cramer, the 
admirable violin performer, leader of the Opera 
band, King's concert, and all the musical meetings. 

On the 24th of May, in the same year, Mr. 
Sheridan's celebrated play of " Pizarro," from 
Kotzebue, was produced; it,was admirably acted, 
and I had the proud distinction of having my name 
joined with that of Mr. Sheridan, in its production, 
having been selected by him to compose the whole 
of the music. 

Expectation was on tip-toe: and strange as it 
may appear, " Pizarro" was advertised, and every 
box in the house taken, before the fourth act of the 
play was begun ; nor had I one single word of the 
poetry for which I was to compose the music. Day 
after day was I attending on Mr. Sheridan, repre- 
senting that time was flying, and that nothing was 
done for me. His answer uniformly was, " Depend 
upon it, my dear Mic, you shall have plenty of 
matter to go on with to-morrow ;" but day after 
day, that morrow came not, which, as my name was 
advertised as the composer of the music, drove me 
half crazy. 






144 REMINISCENCES OF 

One day I was giving a dinner to the Earl of 
Guilford, the Marquis of Ormond (then Lord Or- 
mond), my valued friend Sir Charles Bampfylde, 
Sir Francis Burdett, George Colman, J. Richard- 
son, M. Lewis, and John Kemble; and, about ten 
o'clock, when I was in the full enjoyment of this 
charming society, Mr. Sheridan appeared before us, 
and informed my friends, that he must carry me off' 
with him, that moment, to Drury Lane; begged 
they would excuse my absence for one hour, and he 
would return with me. I saw it would be useless 
to contradict him, so I went to the theatre, and 
found the stage and house lighted up, as it would 
have been for a public performance ; not a human 
being there, except ourselves, the painters, and car- 
penters ; and all this preparation was merely that 
he might see two scenes, those of Pizarro's tent, 
and the Temple of the Sun. 

The great author established himself in the centre 
of the pit, with a large bowl of negus on the bench 
before him ; nor would he move until it was finished. 
I expostulated with him upon the cruelty of not 
letting me have the words which I had to compose, 
not to speak of his having taken me away from my 
friends, to see scenery and machinery, with which, 
as I was neither painter, nor carpenter, nor ma- 
chinist, I could have nothing to do : his answer was, 
that he wished me to see the Temple of the San, in 
which the choruses and marches were to come over 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

the platform. " To-morrow," said he, " I promise 
I will come and take a cutlet with you, and tell you 
all you have to do. My dear Mic, you know you 
can depend upon me; and I know that I can de- 
pend upon you ; but these bunglers of carpenters 
require looking after/ 1 

After this promise, we returned to my house ; I 
found my party waiting ; nor did we separate until 
five o'clock in the morning. 

To my utter surprise, the next day, according to 
his own appointment, Mr. Sheridan really came to 
dinner ; after the cloth was removed, he proposed 
business. I had pen, ink, music-paper, and a 
small piano-forte (which the Duke of Queensberry 
had given me, and which he had been accustomed to 
take with him in his carriage, when he travelled,) 
put upon the table with our wine. My aim was, to 
discover the situations of the different choruses and 
the marches, and Mr. Sheridan's ideas on the sub- 
ject ; and he gave them in the following manner : 
" In the Temple of the Sun, 1 ' said he, " I want 
the virgins of the Sun, and their high priest, to 
chaunt a solemn invocation to their deity. 11 I sang 
two or three bars of music to him, which I thought 
corresponded with what he wished, and marked them 
down. He then made a sort of rumbling noise with 
his voice (for he had not the slightest idea of turn- 
ing a tune), resembling a deep gruff bow, wow 

VOL. II. H 



146 REMINISCENCES OF 

wow ; but though there was not the slightest resem- 
blance of an air in the noise he made, yet so clear 
were his ideas of effect, that I perfectly understood 
his meaning, though conveyed through the medium 
of a bow, wow, wow. Having done this, and 
pointed out their several situations, he promised 
me, faithfully, that I should have the poetry in a 
couple of days ; and, marvellous to say, he actually 
did send me Cora's song, which Mrs. Jordan sang ; 
and the trio, sung by Mrs. Crouch, Miss Decamp, 
and Miss Leak, "Fly away, time,"" which they 
made very effective. The poetry of the last, how- 
ever, was written by my good friend, Mr. Richard- 
son ; the song really by himself. Having extracted 
these, I saw that it was perfectly ridiculous to expect 
the poetry of the choruses from the author of the 
play ; and as I knew a literary gentleman, whose 
poverty, if not his will, would consent' to assist me, 
I gave him Mr. Sheridan's ideas, as I had caught 
them from his bow, wow, wows, and got him to 
write words to them, which he did very well ; at least 
well enough to answer my purpose. 

But if this were a puzzling situation for a com- 
poser, what will my readers think of that, in which 
the actors were left, when I state the fact, that, at 
the time the house was overflowing on the first night's 
performance, all that was written of the play was 
actually rehearsing, and that incredible as it may 



MICHAEL KELLi'. 147 

appear, until the end of the fourth act, neither Mrs. 
Siddons, nor Charles Kemble, nor Barrymore, had 
all their speeches for the fifth ? Mr. Sheridan was 
up-stairs in the prompter's room, where he was 
writing the last part of the play, while the earlier 
parts were acting; and every ten minutes he brought 
down as much of the dialogue as he had done, piece- 
meal, into the green-room, abusing himself and his 
negligence, and making a thousand winning and 
soothing apologies, for having kept the performers 
so long in such painful suspense. 

One remarkable trait in Sheridan's character was, 
his penetrating knowledge of the human mind ; for 
no man was more careful in his carelessness ; he was 
quite aware of his power over his performers, and of 
the veneration in which they held his great talents ; 
had he not been so, he would not have ventured to 
keep them (Mrs. Siddons particularly) in the dread- 
ful anxiety which they were suffering through the 
whole of the evening. Mrs. Siddons told me that 
she was in an agony of fright ; but Sheridan per- 
fectly knew, that Mrs. Siddons, C. Kemble, and 
Barrymore, were quicker in study than any other 
performers concerned ; and that he could trust them 
to be perfect in what they had t o say, even at half- 
an-hour's notice. And the event proved that he was 
right : the play was received with the greatest ap- 
probation, and though brought out so late in the 



14:8 REMINISCENCES OF 

season, was played thirty-one nights ; and for years 
afterwards proved a mine of wealth to the Drury 
Lane Treasury, and, indeed, to all the theatres in 
the United Kingdom. 

Such, however, were the delays during the first 
night's performance, that the play did not end until 
within five minutes of midnight ! The farce of 
" My Grandmother, 1 ' was to follow, but the exhaus_ 
tion of the audience was so complete, that, when the 
afterpiece commenced, only seventeen persons re- 
mained in the whole dress circle, and twenty-two in 
the pit. 

John Kemble is so perfectly identified with the 
character of Rolla, that perhaps, as anecdotes of such 
a person, however trifling, if characteristic, are 
always interesting, I may be permitted to mention 
an instance of his coolness in the midst of difficulty, 
which I had forgotten to relate in its proper place, 
as far as dates are concerned. 

In the summer of 1783, he and his unrivalled 
sister, Mrs. Siddons, were engaged at Limerick ; 
and Mrs. Crouch, then Miss Phillips, was also there, 
playing on the alternate nights with the tragedians. 
She was beyond measure popular, and the theme of 
universal admiration. One evening, after having 
performed Rosetta, in " Love in a Village,"" some 
officers of a militia regiment, quartered in Limerick, 
being very much intoxicated, avowed their intention , 



MICHAEL KELLY. 149 

of escorting her home ; and, in order to carry their 
plan into execution, obtained admission behind the 
scenes, and proceeded to address her on the subject. 
She, terrified, ran into her dressing-room and locked 
the door, which these heroes declared they would 
forthwith break open. 

It so happened, that Mr. Phillips, her father, 
was laid up with the gout at that juncture, and had 
commissioned Kemble to see his daughter home 
after the play ; and thus authorised, the moment he 
heard the disturbance and its cause, he proceeded to 
the scene of action, and politely requested the 
military force to withdraw ; but they positively 
refused to stir without Miss Phillips. Upon which, 
Kemble took his sword, and said, that having been 
deputed by the lady's father to escort her to her 
house, he should execute his commission at the 
hazard of his life, and requested Miss Phillips to 
open the door of the dressing-room. 

With this request she complied ; but they had 
not proceeded many paces, before one of the officers, 
of the name of Yelverton, came behind Kemble, and 
made a cut at his head with his sabre. A woman, 
of the name of Judy Cameron, one of the stage- 
dressers, perceived the intention ; and catching the 
man's arm, wrested the sword from him, and, in all 
probability, saved Kemble's life. Kemble saw the 
whole transaction ; and, without the smallest altera- 



150 REMINISCENCES OF 

tbn in look or manner, or being in the slightest 
degree moved, he turned to his preserver, Judy, 
and said, " Well done, Euphrasia !" He then 
drew his sword, and conducted his fair charge 
in safety to her chair. 

Lord Muskerry, who was Colonel of the regi- 
ment, called upon Kemble in the morning, and told 
him that every apology he might require should be 
made by the officers. This anecdote, extremely 
illustrative of character, I had both from' Mrs. 
Crouch and her father, who always mentioned it 
with gratitude, and admiration of the high spirit 
and perfect coolness which Kemble displayed upon 
this trying occasion. 

My next production, at Drury Lane, was an 
afterpiece, from the German of Kotzebue. I do 
not recollect the German title of it, but it was 
literally translated into English by Mr. Papendick, 
a native of Germany, a very worthy man, and page 
to Her Majesty Queen Charlotte. He shewed it 
to my friend John Bannister, who told me he 
approved of the incidents and situations ; but in the 
state in which it then was, he thought it impossible 
to produce it on the English stage with any effect ; 
but he 'proposed to me to join with him in pur- 
chasing the copyright, and getting it adapted, by 
some skilful hand, for Drury Lane Theatre. 

Having a reliance on his judgment, I agreed to 



MICHAEL KELLY. 151 

go with him the next day to Windsor, where Mr. 
Papendick was the page in waiting, to propose 
terms for the purchase of his translation ; we did 
so, and agreed for a certain sum, and returned the 
next day to town. Bannister prevailed on our 
worthy friend, Tom Dibdin, to take the main 
incident, and write a piece from it; which (sub 
rosd) he did admirably. He called it "Of Age 
To-morrow." I composed the whole of the music, 
with the exception of the opening piece, which I 
selected from Paesiello. This farce was, and is, 
a great favourite ; nothing could be more perfect 
than the acting and singing of Mrs. Charles Kem- 
ble, then Miss Decamp ; by those who had the 
pleasure of witnessing it, I think it impossible it can 
ever be forgotten. Bannister's personification of 
the Hair Dresser, was excellent ; had he served a 
seven years' apprenticeship to the trade, he could 
not have been more aufait in it, nor have handled 
the comb, curling irons, and powder puff, more 
skilfully. Wewitzer, in the Old German Soldier, 
was excellent ; and Suett, as the Country Sportsman, 
highly amusing. 

This piece was very productive to the treasury, 
at little or no expense. In it there was a ballad, 
written by Mr. M. G. Lewis, and composed by 
myself, which was sung by Miss Decamp, entitled, 
" No, my love, no." I believe I may say it was 



152 REMINISCENCES OF 

the most popular song of the day ; it was not only 
to be found on every piano-forte, but also to be 
heard in every street, for it was a great favourite 
with the ballad-singers : but the primitive cause of 
its gaining such popularity was, its being sung 
delightfully by a distinguished amateur, and more 
completely too, with the expression I intended, 
than by any other person I ever heard ; I allude 
to Mr. Charles Calvert, the present Member for 
South wark. Many and many a time have I heard 
him sing it charmingly, and often have I enjoyed 
his kind hospitality and social qualities. To Miss 
Decamp I had also great obligations for the anima- 
tion and spirit she infused into it. 

Amongst other friends who used to favour me 
with their company to dinner, was Signer Ferdi- 
nando Mazzanti, a native of Rome, who had been 
formerly a celebrated soprano singer in Italy and 
Germany. Dr. Burney, in his Musical Tour, 
speaks highly of his merits. He mentions him as a 
great musician, and an eminent classical scholar. 
When he first came to England he was sixty years 
of age, and when I knew him was turned seventy. 
He did not speak a word of English on his first 
arrival in London, yet, strange as it may appear, for 
a person at a period of life so advanced, in a very 
few years he made himself master of the English 
language, and was fully acquainted with most of 



MICHAEL KELLY. 153 

the works of our poets and dramatic writers. He 
was very intimate with Mr. Swinburne, who for- 
merly wrote a Tour of Italy, and gave instructions 
in singing to his daughter, who afterwards married 
Mr. Paul Benfield, on his return from India. Maz- 
zanti was a most entertaining companion, possessed 
a fund of wit a$ well as information, was full of 
anecdote, and had a memory scarcely equalled. 

He received an invitation from his friend Mr. 
Swinburne, on his arrival in London, to stay with 
him, which he accepted ; and he told me, that the 
first time he ever went to an opera in England, the 
performance was " The Beggar's Opera Travestied," 
at the Little Theatre in the Haymarket, which he 
mistook for the Opera House in the same street. 
The part of Polly upon that occasion was'represented 
by the elder Bannister, who gave her tender airs 
with all the power of his deep and sonorous bass 
voice; and he told me that his astonishment and 
horror were unspeakable, when he saw the part of 
a young woman acted by an old man ; for he had 
not been informed, nor did he even guess at the 
time, that the part of Polly was burlesqued ; on the 
contrary, he thought it had been so intended by the 
author, and always so acted. A few nights after- 
wards, he was asked to go and see the tragedy of 
" Isabella," at Drury Lane. " No, no," said he, 
H 5 



154 REMINISCENCES OF 

" I will not go to your theatres to see heroines acted 
by old bass singers with beards ;" nor could he be 
prevailed upon, for a long time, to attend any of 
our theatrical exhibitions, in consequence of his 
early disgust. 

Mr. Taylor, of the Opera House, wished me (if 
I could have got permission from Mr. Sheridan) 
to go abroad and engage a first woman singer for 
his theatre. I was one morning talking to Viganoni, 
and mentioned Mr. Taylor's desire. " Indeed, 11 
said Viganoni, " you need not go so far as Italy ; 
you have only to go over the way to Badioli's shop, 
and in his first floor you will find a most beautiful 
woman, an excellent singer and admirable actress, 
who only arrived in London from the Continent 
late last night. 1 ' I communicated this intelligence 
to Mr. Taylor, who requested me, as stage manager, 
to wait upon her ; and, if I could hear her sing, 
and approved of her, to offer her an engagement for. 
the season. 

The next day I waited on Madame Bolla, intro- 
duced myself to her, and found her an accomplished 
beautiful woman, without the slightest affectation. 
I stated my business to her, she said she was very 
willing to engage. On her piano-forte, there was, 
amongst other music, a duet, which I asked her if 
she would favour me so far as to sing with me. She 



MICHAEL KELLY. ]55 

replied, " Most willingly ; I perceive you wish to 
hear me, before you engage me : and I think you 
are perfectly right." 

She sang the duet, and I was highly pleased. 
She asked 800/. for the season. I acquainted Mr. 
Taylor with her terms, and he ordered articles to be 
drawn out, which I took to her the next day, and 
which she immediately signed, and made her debut 
in Paesiello's opera of "II Zingari in Fiera," and 
met with the most decided success. She was perfect 
mistress of the English language, and spoke it 
fluently. She had been brought to England from 
Milan when a child, and placed at school at Hamp- 
stead, where she remained six years, returned to 
Italy, and performed in all the principal theatres on 
the Continent. She acted Lilla, in " The Siege of 
Belgrade," at Drury Lane, for the benefit of Mrs. 
Crouch, and gave all the points of the dialogue as 
if she had been for years on the English stage, and 
was received with just and merited applause. 

On the 15th of May, 1800, (a memorable day, as 
it afterwards proved,) I went to see His Majesty, 
King George the Third, review the grenadier bat- 
talion in Hyde Park. In firing one of the vollies, 
a ball struck Mr. Ongley, a clerk in the Navy 
Office, who was standing only a few paces from 
the King. It was said, that had the wound been 
two inches higher it must have been mortal. On 



156 REMINISCENCES OF 

the same evening, an event took place at Drury 
Lane Theatre, which, combined with what had 
occurred in the morning, gave the most serious 
alarm. When the arrival of the King was an- 
nounced, the band, as usual, played " God save the 
King." I was standing at the stage-door, opposite 
the royal box, to see His Majesty. The moment 
he entered the box, a man in the pit, next the 
orchestra, on the right hand, stood up on the bench, 
and discharged a pistol at our august Monarch, as 
he came to the front of the box. Never shall I for- 
get His Majesty's coolness, the whole audience 
was in an uproar. The King, on hearing the report 
of the pistol, retired a pace or two, stopped, and 
stood firmly for an instant ; then came forward to 
the very front of the box, put his opera-glass to his 
eye, and looked round the house, without the small- 
est appearance of alarm or discomposure. 

The late Marquis of Salisbury, then Lord Cham- 
berlain, was behind His Majesty, in attendance in 
the box ; and on hearing the report of the pistol, 
fearing some further attack might follow, respect- 
fully requested His Majesty would retire from the 
box into the adjoining room. His Majesty's reply 
to him was, " Sir, you discompose me as well as 
yourself, I shall not stir one step." The Queen 
and Princesses then entered the box. On ascend- 
ing the staircase, the Queen asked Mr. Sheridan 



MICHAEL KELLY. 157 

what all the noise and uproar was about ? He 
replied, it arose from some boys, who had been firing 
off squibs. Hatfield, the ruffian who committed 
the crime, was seized by the performers in the 
orchestra, and dragged over its spikes into the 
music-room, which was under the stage: the 
audience from all parts vociferating, u Bring for- 
ward the assassin, bring him on the stage shew 
him, shew him." 

I was at that moment on the stage. The Queen 
called me to her, and asked me if the man was in 
custody ; I told Her Majesty that he was secured. 
I then came forward and addressed the audience, 
assuring them, that the culprit was in safe custody, 
undergoing an examination by His Royal Highness 
the Duke of York, Mr. Sheridan, and Sir William 
Addington ; but with the immense crowds about 
the doors, and under the stage, in the confusion, 
he might possibly escape, should they insist on 
his being brought forward. This appeal pro- 
duced tranquillity. " God save the King" was 
then called for, and received with shouts of applause, 
waving of hats, &c. During the whole of the play, 
the Queen and Princesses were absorbed in tears ; it 
was a sight never to be forgotten by those present. 
At the end of the play, " God save the King" was 
again demanded by the whole house ; and while we 
were singing it, a paper was sent to me by Mr. 



158 REMINISCENCES OF 

Sheridan, with a verse which he had written on the 
spur of the moment. It was handed to me by Mrs. 
Jordan, and I sang it, although with an agitated 
voice. It was as follows : 

From every latent foe, 
From the assassin's blow, 

God save the King. 

O'er him thine arm extend, 
For Britain's sake defend 
Our father, prince, and friend, 
God save the King. 

This stanza was three times repeated, with the 
most rapturous approbation. His Royal Highness 
the Prince of Wales was assisting in the music-room 
at the examination, and evinced the most anxious 
solicitude and joy for the safety of his royal and 
august father. The play was Gibber's comedy, 
"She would, and she would not." Never was a 
piece so hurried over, for the performers were all in 
the greatest agitation and confusion. When it con- 
cluded, His Majesty left the theatre, amidst the 
shouts of the audience within, and the enthusiastic 
cheers of the populace withou 

I remember perfectly well, I had dined that day 
with Mr. Frederick Walsh, in Fludyer Street, with 
Lord Guilford, Sir Charles Bampfylde, and Mr. 
Taylor of the Opera House. 1 was obliged to 



MICHAEL KELLY. 159 

leave the table almost as soon as we sat down, being 
under the necessity of going to the theatre to sing 
in " God save the King." Mr. Taylor (who was a 
great joker) said, " Mark me, when that fellow 
returns from the theatre, he will come to us with 
some marvellous story in his mouth.*" When the 
performance was over, I returned to Mr. Walsh's, 
and found the party over their wine. I went into 
the parlour and exclaimed, that the King had been 
shot at, in the Theatre. Mr. Taylor burst into a 
roar of laughter, saying, " Did not I tell you that 
he would come back with some quiz in his mouth ?" 
Nor could I for a long time convince them that what 
I had said was truth ; so naturally improbable did it 
appear, that so good and gracious a monarch should 
have been exposed to the perils of assassination. 

On the 29th of April, 1800, Miss BailhVs play 
of " De Montfort" was produced at Drury Lane 
Theatre. I composed the music : the scenery 
was magnificent ; the cathedral scene, painted by 
Capon, was a chef-cTceuvre ; it had also the support 
of excellent acting. Mr. Kemble took every pains 
in getting it up, but it would not suit the public 
taste, and was withdrawn after a few nights. 

On the 22nd of May, 1800, was produced, for 
Banti^s benefit at the Opera House, an opera, en- 
titled, " Zenobia and Arminia," the music composed 
by the Earl of Mount Edgcumbe ; some of it was 



160 REMINISCENCES OF 

extremely pretty, and did infinite credit to the 
noble amateur, who is an excellent musician, and a 
good counterpointist. 

At Drury Lane, llth of December, 1800, was 
revived, under the classical superintendence of John 
Kemble, with great splendour of dresses and deco- 
rations, Shakspeare's " King John. 11 Kemble acted 
King John with great force and discrimination. In 
my humble opinion it was one of his very best 
characters ; his scene with Hubert was great indeed : 
but what words can describe the magnificent perform- 
ance of Mrs. Siddons, in Lady Constance ! By 
those who have had the good fortune to witness it, I 
am convinced it can never be forgotten. Charles 
Kemble's Faulconbridge was, and is to this day, a 
masterpiece. Miss Kelly was the representative of 
Prince Arthur ; and although so very young at the 
time, evinced a promise of future excellence which 
she has most amply realised. 

Mr. Sheridan called upon me one day, and said, 
" Last night I was at Brookes's ; Charles Fox came 
there with Lord Robert Spencer, they had both 
been at Drury Lane to see * King John.' I asked 
him if he was pleased with the performance. 11 He 
replied, " that he was, particularly with Mrs. 
Siddons. But, 1 ' he added, " there was a little girl 
who acted Prince Arthur, with whom I was greatly 
struck ; her speaking was so perfectly natural ; take 



MICHAEL KELLY. 161 

my word for it, Sheridan, that girl in time will be 
at the head of her profession." Mr. Sheridan at 
that period did not know that Miss Kelly was a 
relation of mine ; but upon this favourable report, 
went to see her, and told me that he perfectly agreed 
with Mr. Fox ; and further said, " that he should 
like to read the character of Monimia in the 6 Or- 
phan,' to her; for, at some future day, he was 
convinced she would act it admirably." Praise 
from two such men, and such judges of the drama, 
as Fox and Sheridan, must have been highly flat- 
tering to any performer. 

When Miss Kelly left Drury Lane, and went for 
some time to act at Glasgow (where she was a great 
favourite), Mrs. Siddons one day inquired after 
her, as the promising girl who had performed with 
her in " King John." I told Mrs. Siddons she was 
gone to act in Scotland. " Well," said that incom- 
parable actress, " I shall be glad to see her return 
to Drury Lane, where she ought to be ; for, if she 
continue to improve, I am much mistaken if she do 
not become at some time a very conspicuous orna- 
ment to her profession." 

In February 1801, the popular play of " Deaf 
and Dumb," was brought out at Drury Lane. Miss 
DecampX John Kemble's, and Wroughton's acting 
in this piece were, in my opinion, beyond all praise. 
Mrs. Mountain sang a song, of my composing, in 



162 REMINISCENCES OF 

it, charmingly the poetry by Mr. M. G. Lewis ; 
it was very popular, and always encored. This 
piece was originally translated by Holcroft, and 
afterwards altered and adapted to the English stage 
by Kemble. 

Mr. M. G. Lewis brought out, on the 4th of 
May, 1801, at Drury Lane Theatre, his drama of 
" Adelmorn the Outlaw, 1 ' to which I composed the 
music. On the whole it was successful. 

I had the pleasure this year to meet Mr. Thomas 
Moore, the poet, at Mrs. Crouch's cottage in the 
King's Road ; my brother Joseph introduced him 
there. I was much entertained with his conversa- 
tion, and cultivated his pleasing society; and, in 
the course of our acquaintance, persuaded him to 
write a musical afterpiece, for the Haymarket The- 
atre. I engaged with Mr. Colman to compose the 
music, and to perform in it. It was called " The 
Gipsey Prince," and was performed for the first time 
on the 24th of July, 1801 ; part of the poetry was 
very pretty ; but the piece did not succeed, and was 
withdrawn. 

As a sample of the poetry, I subjoin a song, sung 
by me, in the character of the Gipsey Prince : 

" I have roam'd through many a weary round, 

I have wandered East and West ; 
Pleasure in every clime, I found, 
But sought in vain for rest. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 163 

" When Glory sighs for othey climes, 

I feel that one's too wide ; 
And think a home which Love endears, 
Is worth a world beside. 



" The needle, thus, too rudely moved, 

Wander'd unconscious where ; 
Yet, having found the place it loved, 
It, trembling, settled there." 



The same year I entered into a new sort of specu- 
lation, of which I will detail the particulars : It 
will be remembered, that at the corner of Market 
Lane, in Pah 1 Mall, there was an old house almost 
falling, the lease of which (it had sixteen years 
to run) was to be sold. The owner was Mr. Rice, 
boxkeeper to the Little Theatre in the Haymarket. 
Mr. Taylor, the proprietor of the Opera House, 
suggested a plan to me, which, he said, he was 
convinced would make my fortune ; namely, to 
buy the lease of that house, put it into thorough 
repair, and make a large shop in it, to sell my 
own compositions. As a further temptation, he 
told me that I should have a door opening to 
the stage of the Opera House; and that all the 
subscribers to the Opera, for the great conve- 
nience of having a private passage, and easy 
access to their carriages and sedan-chairs, would, 
most willingly, subscribe two guineas a year each, 



. 

REMINISCENCES OF 

which would amply reimburse me for the expense 
attending it. And also, that by paying a por- 
tion of the salaries of the opera composers from 
abroad, I should have the music of the operas 
and ballets' to publish, exclusively, for my own 
emolument. And moreover, that being manager 
of the Opera House, living, as it might be said, 
under its roof, would be a great advantage to < 
me, in attending rehearsals and performances ; 
and, in being always on the spot where my ser- 
vices were required. All these advantages were 
very alluring; no situation cculd be better for a 
music-shop ; in short, through Fancy's aid, I 
hoped, in sixteen years, to be as rich as Croesus ; 
but, 

" Hope told a flattering tale." 

Five hundred guineas were required for the 
lease ; and, on a moderate calculation, a thou- 
sand more to make the requisite alterations. 

At this time, I had the distinguished honour 
of attending His Royal Highness the Prince of 
Wales, when he had music at Carlton House. I 
humbly took the liberty to mention to His Royal 
Highness the plan I had formed, to open a shop 
for the sale of my own music, and to entreat his 
royal opinion. He condescendingly gave his opi- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 165 

irion, that I was perfectly right : " For," graciously 
added his Royal Highness, " in a commercial 

' country like ours, nothing can be more creditable 
than for a man to sell the produce of his own 
abilities, or, indeed, of any other person's." 

Sanctioned by such an opinion, I made up mv 
mind ; and with the assistance of my good friend 

I Moody (to which I have before alluded), I pur- 
chased the lease of the house, and almost rebuilt it. 
The expenditure was far beyond what I was led to 
anticipate. However, I spared no cost, stocked 
it well with other music, besides my own ; engaged 
shopmen, porters, &c. and opened it to the public 
on the 1st of January, 1802. The crowds of people 
who came to purchase music, by way of bringing 
me (as they said) good luck, were immense. The 
subscription w r as opened, for the opera visitors to 
get an easy access to their carriages. The ladies 
subscribers said, it was delightful to have such 
an accommodation. Most of them immediately 
put down their names, but very few of them ever 
put down their money, although there was a con- 
siderable current expense attending it, for fires, 
lighting, and extra servants. 

I began to think I was not fitted for what I 
had undertaken, and reflected on the proverb, 
" the eye of the master fattens the horse." In- 
deed, my occupations at Drury Lane, Covent 



166 REMINISCENCES OF 

Garden, and Haymarket, both as performer and 
composer, besides being manager of the Italian 
Opera, and musical director at Drury Lane and 
the Little Theatre in the Haymarket, were quite 
enough to engage any one man^s mind, without 
entering into a business which required every 
attention paid to it, from morning till night. 
Too late, alas ! was I convinced of my error ; 
but I was in for it, too deep to retract. 

On the 22nd January, 1802, at Drury Lane 
Theatre, the Honourable William Spencer pro- 
duced a musical afterpiece, entitled " Urania." 
The music of it was the joint production of his 
brother, the Honourable John Spencer, and my- 
self. I felt much honoured and flattered by the 
association. Mr. Spencer, who was a scientific 
writer and a sound musician, composed some 
very good music for it. I had the pleasure of 
being known to him at Vienna, when on his 
travels. It is by his tasteful selection, I under- 
stand, that the chacoone of Jomelli (which I 
selected for the appearance of the Ghost in " The 
Castle Spectre") was first introduced by him into 
our churches, and known in all of them by the title 
of " The Sanctus of Jomelli." 

The dialogue in " Urania" was classically beau- 
tiful, as well as the poetry. There was one song in 
it sung by Mrs. Bland, (which was a great favourite,) 



MICHAEL KELLY 167 

entitled, " Nature with swiftness armed the horse ;"* 
a liberal translation from Anacreon, written with 
true poetic taste, to which I composed the music. 
The scene of Urania's descent was entirely new to the 
English stage, and produced an extraordinary effect. 
The piece was received with uncommon applause. 

I formerly had the pleasure of being often in the 
society of Mr. William Spencer, at his own house, 
and of meeting him at that of my friend, Mr. Wil- 
liam Maddocks. Both these gentlemen were lovers 
of the stage, encouragers and judges of the drama, 
and of the chosen few who know the value of it, 
under judicious regulations. Mr. William Mad- 
docks possessed a large fund of wit and humour, 
and wrote a farce for a private theatre to which he 
belonged, which possessed much merit. 

I often regretted, that Mr. William Spencer 
did not continue to write for the stage. His 
knowledge of various languages, particularly Ger- 
man, would have furnished him with many good 
subjects. He is also perfect master of Italian, and 
well versed in all the poets of that enchanting 
language. 

Mrs. Billington returned to England this season, 
after an absence of several years, and was en- 
gaged at Drury Lane and Covent Garden, to per- 
form a certain number of nights at each theatre. 
At both she appeared in Mandane, in " Arta- 

3 



168 REMINISCENCES OF . 

xerxes ;" she went through all her operatical cha- 
racters, in all of which I performed with her. She 
was received with rapturous applause, and on each 
night drew crowded houses. 

On the llth March. 1802, Drury Lane Theatre 
was closed for the night. Francis, Duke of Bed- 
ford, was buried on that day ; and, having been 
ground-landlord of the theatre, this mark of respect 
was paid to his memory. 

On the 28th March, Mrs. Billington performed 
" Merope, v at the Opera House, for Band's benefit, 
who, on this occasion, appeared for the first time in 
male attire. Curiosity was on tip- toe to hear these 
two great singers, in the same opera, and the per- 
formance drew an overflowing house. The worthy 
Signor Zacharia Banti, to be sure of laying hold of 
the money, had the pit-door barricadoed, and posted 
himself there, with some of his friends. An im- 
mense crowd had collected at the doors, before the 
usual time of admission ; and on their being 
opened, the rush was so great, that smash went 
the barricade, which, together with the cautious 
Signor Banti, was carried forward, money-boxes and 
all, in the van of the crowd, to the very .extremity 
of the pit. 

Recovering himself, and getting on his legs, he 
gazed around him, and in disappointed anguish 
exclaimed, " O Santa Maria ! de pit full ! de gal- 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 169 

2ery full ! all full and no money in de box ! What 
will my Brigada my angel wife say, when I shall 
have nothing in my box for her ?" 

A similar circumstance happened at one of my 
benefits at the Opera House, when Madame Cata- 
lani did me the favour to sing for me ; the rush was 
so great, that the doors were broken down, and the 
pit crammed to excess : the return in money was 
only S5Z. Of course, great numbers got into the 
pit without paying ; and though an appeal was 
made, and a request that those who had not paid, 
would send the price of their admission to the box- 
office the following day, not a single person sent ; 
they seemed all to be of FalstafTs way of thinking, 
" They did not like that paying back." 

The same year my old friend, King, quitted the 
Drury Lane stage, which he had trodden fifty-five 
years an ornament to his profession. 

Mrs. Billington had her benefit at Drury Lane, 
30th April. On this occasion the opera of " Algo- 
nah" was brought forward; 'the drama by Cobb, 
the music by myself. The opera was successful, 
though, on the first representation of it, poor Mrs. 
Billington had a terrible fright; and no wonder, 
poor thing, for at the end of the first act, wKb did 
she find sitting in her dressing-room, but her be*- 
loved husband, Monsieur de Felican, whom she 
thought safe and snug at Venice, whence she had 

VOL. II. I 



170 IlEMIXISCENCES OF 

escaped from him ; but he, good soul, was deeply in 
love with her English guineas, and all at once 
vowed he could no longer bear to be separated from 
his beloved Bettina, as he called her. 

Monsieilr Felican had been in the Commissariat 
department, in Buonaparte's service; and having 
laid strong siege to Mrs. Billington's affections, suc- 
ceeded. He was a remarkably handsome man, and 
(as Mrs. Billington told me), before marriage, a 
most insinuating monster of meekness : but the very 
first week after their union, the dove assumed the 
h'erceness of the hawk. It was said, that he used to 
treat her unmercifully ; and if she dared to com- 
plain, plates, dishes, or any other moveable, were 
thrown at her. Such was her story. I never 
would have any communication with him. How it 
was managed, I know not, but his stay in this 
country was very short ; I have reason to believe, 
that he had many weighty arguments put to him, to 
hasten his departure. I never saw any woman so 
much in awe of man, as poor Mrs. Billington of 
him whom she had married for love. 

At this period, Drury Lane was in a very bad 
way, the actors 1 salaries were greatly in arrear. 
Mr. Grubb, one of the proprietors, and Messrs. 
llammersley, applied to the Lord Chancellor, 
praying, that their demands on the theatre, with 
those of the old and new renters, might be taken out 






MICHAEL KELLY. 171 

of the receipts before the performers were paid, 
Sheridan resisted this; and the actors, one and all, 
threatened to strike, if such an order were granted. 
The cause came on before the Chancellor. Sheridan 
pleaded his own cause against the whole Chancery- 
bar, which was retained on the other side. In a 
most elaborate and eloquent speech, he stated the 
embarrassments of the theatre, the necessity of pay- 
ing the performers, as no work could go on without 
workmen : if they withdrew their services, the 
doors must be closed, the property fall to pieces, 
and general ruin ensue. From his eloquent tongue 
persuasion flowed, and won the high debate. The 
consequence was, that the performers gained the 
day ; and an order was granted, that they should be 
the first persons paid. 

The Lord Chancellor, after passing a high eulo- 
gium on Sheridan, quoted, in addressing him, (as I 
was told, for I was not near enough to hear it,) 
Doctor Johnson's last lines in the " Life of Sa- 
vage." " Negligence and irregularity, long con- 
tinued, make knowledge useless, wit ridiculous, and 
genius contemptible." 

I thought at the time, that the quotation might 
have been spared, and that it was perhaps harsh to 
speak truth at all times. However, he left the 
Court amidst the loud congratulations and admira- 
tion of his friends, and the envy and discomfiture 



REMINISCENCES OF 

of his enemies. He walked with me to my house in 
Pall Mall, where he dined, and told me that he 
should have spoken better, if I had not kept him 
up so late the night before. I was so happy and 
delighted, that I could not help reminding him of 
Mr. Pitt's eulogium on him, during Warren Has- 
tings's trial. That illustrious statesman designated 
Mr. Sheridan's speech, on that occasion, as u an 
astonishing effort of eloquence, wit, and argument 
united ; surpassing all the eloquence of ancient and 
modern times, and possessing every thing that 
genius and art could furnish to agitate and controul 
the human mind." For although Mr. Sheridan was 
a follower of Mr. Fox in politics, Mr. Pitt had the 
liberality to pay the above tribute to his talent and 
genius. 

In the month of July 1802, Viganoni and I set 
off in a post-chaise for Dover, and got on board a 
packet for Calais ; we were four-and- thirty hours at 
sea ; among the passengers, were Lady Carhampton 
and Mr. Lewis Goldsmith, whom I had the plea- 
sure of knowing. We got to Nampont at night, 
where I sat upon the very bench which Sterne men- 
tions in his " Sentimental Journey ;" and, all the 
time, I could think of nothing but the " poor old 
man and his dead ass." When we got to Paris, 
we went to an excellent hotel, in the Rue Neuve 
St. Marc. On going past the Thuilleries, on ou.r 






MICHAEL KELLY. 173 

way to dinner, over the gate, in the Place Carousel, 
the first objects which caught my eye, and grieved 
my heart, were my old friends the horses, which I 
used so much to admire in the Piazza St. Marc, at >/ 
Venice. Then they were of bronze, the pride of 
the Venetians ; and to have had them gilt, seemed 
to me like sacrilege. 

There were (at this short period, we were at peace 
with France) a vast number of English in Paris, 
amongst whom, I had the pleasure to be known and 
noticed by Lord Erskine, Mrs. Darner, Mr. and 
Mrs. Fox, Lord and Lady Holland, whose conde- 
scension I always experienced, whenever I had the 
honour of meeting them. There were also in Paris 
my very kind friend, the Earl of Guilford, the 
Honourable Mrs. and Miss St. Leger, with Doctor 
Mousley, on their way to Barege, to drink the 
waters. Viganoni took me with him to a friend of / 
his, in the Place Carousel, to see the First Consul, V 
Buonaparte, review the troops. It was a magni- 
ficent sight. He was mounted on his charger, in a 
plain blue coat, white pantaloons, and a plain cocked 
hat ; and close to him, mounted on a fine Arabian 
horse, his favourite Mameluke, who seemed an 
admirable horseman. All the general officers on 
the ground wore rich and splendid uniforms. The 
contrast was great between their gorgeous attire- 
ments and the simple costume of the littk great 



REMINISCENCES OF 

man, who seemed perfectly conscious of his adven- 
titious superiority. 

On my return from the review, I met my worthy 
friends, John Kemble and Mr. Robert Heathcote, 
in the Rue Richelieu we agreed to dine together, 
and go in the evening to the Theatre Francois, .to 
see Talma act Orestes, in " The Distressed Mo- 
ther." I was much pleased with the performance 
of that great actor ; but there was a scene performed 
in the front of the house more curious to an 
Englishman. Charles Fox, accompanied by his lady, 
and some male friends, occupied a box in the first tier. 
After thefirst actof theplay, there was a buzz through 
the parterre, that Charles Fox was in the house ; 
the moment it was known, there was a general call 
from the parterre, for him to come forward and shew 
himself. The cry from all parts of the house was, 
" Monsieur Fox ! Monsieur Fox ! come forward, 
we want to see you. r> For several minutes he was 
deaf to the call, but the audience seemed determined 
not to let the performance go on, until he did ; for 
Mr. Fox was as naturally a favourite with the 
revolutionary French, as Mr. Pitt was the contrary. 
At length his friends pushed him forward. The 
moment he appeared, there was very general 
applause, which continued for some time, he bowing 
most respectfully to the audience. 

Just as the applause ceased, Buonaparte, accon>- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 175 

panied by some of his officers, entered his box, 
which was vis-a-vis to the one Fox occupied. On 
his entree he was received with the clapping of a few 
hands. He seemed somewhat dissatisfied with his 
reception ; at all events, he did not remain above a 
quarter of an hour in the box, and left it without 
taking the slightest notice of the audience. 

The next day the First Consul held a grand 
levee at the Thuilleries, and all the English were 
presented to him, myself excepted ; but though I 
was not there in proprid persona, my opera hat 
was ; for my Lord Guilford, not having his own with 
him, borrowed mine, which many a time and oft 
I had worn on the stage when acting Captain 
Macheath. On the day of the levee I dined with 
Lord Guilford, who gave me an account of his 
reception. 

He was introduced by the Prefet du Palais as 
Lord Guilford, son of Lord North, at one time 
prime minister of His Britannic Majesty. i 

Buonaparte, darting one of his spiteful looks \j 
at him, said, " My Lord, your father was a very 
great man;"" and, turning to the Marshal, said, 
sneeringly, " Was it not he who lost America for 
England ? yes, he was a very great man indeed ;" 
then turning upon his heel, he walked on. 

The vulgar rudeness and uncalled for imperti- 



176 REMINISCENCES OF 

nence of the remark, were received by the noble 
Earl with contemptuous silence. 

I saw Buonaparte one evening at the Italian 
Opera : the performance was Paesiello's " Nina," 
in which Rovedino and Viganoni both sang, parti- 
cularly a duet, with which Buonaparte seemed 
much pleased. Josephine was in the box, and 
appeared a charming woman, He was very atten- 
tive to her throughout the performance, although 
he afterwards divorced her for his personal conveni- 
ence. He was very partial to Paesiello's music, and 
sent to Naples for him, gave him an appointment of 
two thousand louis a year, excellent apartments in 
the Thuilleries, and a carriage, with servants who 
had permission to wear the Buonaparte livery. 
Acts like these pass for liberality and magnanimity 
in a Corsican tyrant. What would the English 
nation say, if an English monarch ventured to do 
such a thing ? 

The composer and eminent teacher, Signer 
Ferrari, who resided many years in London, was in 
Paris at this period, and visited his old master 
Paesiello daily. I requested him to introduce me 
into Paesiello's apartments without mentioning my 
name, and accordingly was ushered up stairs ; and 
when I came to the drawing-room door, where 
Paesiello and Signora Luigia his wife were, I sang 



MICHAEL KELLY. 177 

on the outside, the favourite song which he had 
composed for me at Vienna ; and although fifteen 
years had elapsed since he wrote it, he recollected 
the tone of my voice, opened the door, and embraced 
me, saying, " Bene venuto, mio caro O^Kelly." I 
stopped with him and dined, and passed a charming 
day. 

Twice or thrice a week during my stay, I dined 
with Madame Montansier, in the Palais Royal. 
This lady was the proprietress of two theatres, the 
Italian Opera and the Comic Theatre, named after 
her, the Theatre Montansier, in the Palais Royal. 
I frequented all the theatres, but chiefly the Fey- 
deau, to hear those excellent singers, and actors, 
EUivien and Martin. At this period they were 
acting " La Maison a vendre." The once beautiful 
Madame Dugazzon played the Old Lady in it, nor 
did she think herself degraded by it. Another piece, 
which was a great favourite of the Parisians, was 
" La Folie." I procured both these operas, and 
brought them to London. " La Maison a vendre" 
I gave to Mr. Cobb, who brought it out at Drury 
Lane, under the title of " A House to be Sold ;" 
and " La Folie" to George Colman, who produced 
it at the Haymarket Theatre, under the title of 
" Love laughs at Locksmiths," and an excellent 
inorceau it was rendered by his masterly genius ; 
indeed, far superior to the French drama. The 
i5 



178 REMINISCENCES OF 

original music of both pieces was very good, but not 
calculated for an English audience ; I therefore 
recomposed the whole of the music for them. Both 
pieces met with prodigious success on our stage, 
but particularly " Love laughs at Locksmiths," 
which is, to the present time (1824), a great fa- 
vourite. 

I was invited by Monsieur Ellivien, to dine with 
him at his hotel in the Rue Mirabeau. Viganoni 
was asked to meet me. I was unknown to our 
host as a performer, and was introduced to him 
by Rovedino, as his friend, who was also of the 
party. After dinner, I was saying to my host, 
that I thought if he had seen " Richard Cceur de 
Lion," and " Lodoiska," as performed in London, 
he would have been pleased ; he laughed, and said, 
it was out of the nature of things, that such music 
as " Richard Cceur de Lion," and " Lodoiska," 
could be sung by English singers, who, to his ears, 
were detestable ; that he had been in London the 
last summer, for two days, that he went to the 
theatre, and was quite disgusted with the vulgarity 
of the performers. In the course of conversation, I 
found that he had obtained leave from the Paris 
theatre to come to England for a week or ten days, 
to liberate a great friend of his, who was confined in 
the King's Bench for debt ; that he was taken to an 
hotel, near Westminster Bridge, and that the only 



MICHAEL KELLY. 179 

theatre he went to, was Astley's ; and from the 
performances he heard there, he had formed his 
opinion of all English music, and English singers. 
Ellivien has since married a rich widow, and retired 
from the stage. 

Paris, to me, always appeared a delightful place. 
I had many friends, was free of the principal 
theatres, and found it, by one half, less expensive 
than Brighton or Margate. I found the people, 
generally speaking, courteous, attentive, and 
obliging. 

After breakfast, one morning, on the Boulevards, 
I was reading the bills of the different theatres, 
stuck against the walls ; in order to fix upon the 
one I should visit in the evening ; when near me, I 
observed, similarly occupied, a tall elderly man, 
seemingly without a shirt, with a pipe in his mouth, 
a greasy red woollen night-cap on his head, a coat 
in tatters, and, to judge from appearances below, a 
true sans culotte. After having made me a low 
bow, he said, in very good French, " Apparently, 
Sir, you are a stranger in Paris, and are examining 
the play bills, to choose the best performance to go 
to, to-night. Amongst those announced, for my 
own part, I should prefer the * AthahV of Racine ; 
the choruses are superb; and the music by Rameau, 
though of the old style, is magnificent. The last 
time I heard it was on the night the Grand Opera 
House on the Boulevards was burned down. If 



180 REMINISCENCES OF 

you are a lover of music, I would advise you to go 
and hear it ; I shall go there myself this evening." 
Saying which, he made me a low bow, and walked 
away, wishing me much pleasure from hearing Ra- 
cine's " Athalie." 

Some people might call the poor ragged admirer 
of Racine and Rameau, intrusive ; for my part I 
took his remarks for disinterested politeness, for he 
neither knew me, nor wanted any thing of me ; and 
as a proof of the generality of taste and information 
amongst the French, I think the anecdote worthy 
of notice. 

Mr. Biggin, who was once called in London the 
handsome Biggin, and who ascended in a balloon 
from Sloane Street, with the pretty Mrs. Sage, was 
at that time in Paris : he was a literary man, and 
had a great taste for the fine arts. He was ap- 
pointed, by Mr. Taylor, his trustee for the Opera 
House, during the period that Lord Kinnaird and 
Mr. Sheldon managed that concern. In conjunc- 
tion with Mr. Biggin, I engaged the celebrated 
Winter, to compose three Italian operas, and three 
grand ballets, for our Opera. I agreed to pay half 
his salary for the exclusive right of publishing his 
music for my own emolument ; and had I not been 
pillaged, that engagement alone would have been a 
fortune to me, so popular were his works, and so 
very extensive the sale of them. 

I left Viganoni in Paris to finish his engagement, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 181 

and returned to England with Mr. Small, a young 
Irish singing master settled in London, who had 
been a scholar of the celebrated Millico at Naples, 
and was a very pleasant fellow. 

On the 25th October, 1802, the burletta of 
" Midas"' was revived at Drury Lane Theatre, with 
unqualified approbation. It had a run, the first 
season, of twenty-seven nights. From my earliest 
days, I was fond of the music of " Midas, 1 ' which, 
in my humble opinion, is delightful. It was en- 
tirely selected by Kane O'Hara, who was a dis- 
tinguished musical amateur ; his adaptations were 
not alone elegant and tasteful, but evinced a thorough 
knowledge of stage effect. I have heard him, when 
a boy, sing at his own house in Dublin, with ex- 
quisite humour, the songs of Midas, Pan, and 
Apollo's drunken song of, " Be by your friends ad- 
vised, too harsh, too hasty Dad." When I acted 
the part of Apollo at Drury Lane, I formed my 
style of singing and acting that song from the recol- 
lection of his manner of singing it*. 

* O'Hara was so remarkably tall, that, among his intimate 
friends iu Ireland, he was nick-named St. Patrick's Steeple. 
Atone time, Giardini's Italian glee was extremely popular, and 
sung every where, in public, and in private. The words in 
Italian are, 

" Viva tutte le vezzose 
Donne, amabile, amorose, 
the non hanao crudeltiu" 



REMINISCENCES OF 

The simple and pretty melody of, " Pray Goody, 
please to moderate the rancour of your tongue," 
(before I sang it at Drury Lane,) was always sung 
in a quick jig time ; it struck me, that the air 
would be better slower, and I therefore resolved to 
sing it in the " andantino grazioso" style, and added 
a repetition of the last bars of the air, which I 
thought would give it more stage effect. When I 
rehearsed it the first time, as I had arranged it, 
Mr. Kemble was on the stage, who, with all the 
performers in the piece, as well as the whole band 
in the orchestra, una voce, declared, that the song 
ought to be sung in quick time, as it ever had been ; 
but I was determined to try it my own way, and I 
did so : and during the run of the piece, it never 
missed getting a loud and unanimous encore. When 
" Midas" was revived at Covent Garden Theatre, 
it was sung by Mr. Sinclair in the exact time in 
which I sang it, and with deserved and additional 
success. It is not, I believe, generally understood, 
that Rousseau was the composer of it. 

It was parodied, and for the last line 

" Che non hanno crudeltk," 
they substituted this, 

" Kane CPKard's cruel tall :" 

a combination of sounds which, from early association, I am 
unable entirely to overcome whenever I hear the glee. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 183 

On the 17th November, " A House to be Sold," 
was brought out at Drury Lane, and received with 
much applause. Bannister and Miss Decamp were 
excellent in their parts, so were Stiett and Wewitzer ; 
and I acted in it the Manager of an Italian Opera ; 
the piece had a run of several nights. There was 
a supper scene, in which I was obliged to eat part 
of a fowl. Bannister told me, at rehearsal, what 
then I could hardly believe, that it was very difficult / 
to eat and swallow food on the stage. But, strange 
as it may appear, I found it a fact, for I could not 
get down a morsel ; my embarrassment was a great 
source of fun to Bannister and Suett, who were both 
gifted with the accommodating talent of stage 
feeding ; whoever saw poor Suett in the Lawyer, in 
" No Song, no Supper," tucking in his boiled leg of 
lamb ; or in the " Siege of Belgrade," will be little 
disposed to question my testimony to the fact. 

The next novelty at Drury Lane, was an historical 
musical drama, called the " Hero of the North," 
produced on the 19th February, 1803. I composed 
the music, and also performed in it. It was re- 
ceived with distinguished applause. 

On the 16th of May, I went to see the first 
appearance of my friend Mathews, at the Hay- 
market, in the characters of Jabel, in Cumberland's 
comedy of the " Jew," and Lingo, in the " Agree- 
able Surprise :" he was received by a crowded house 



184 REMINISCENCES OF 

with unanimous applause. He came from the York 
Theatre, where he had been a distinguished favourite 
of the eccentric Tate Wilkinson (who knew well 
how to value his talents), as well as of the York 
audience, and the other theatres of the circuit he 
belonged to. 

He married a favourite pupil of Mrs. Crouch's, 
a Miss Jackson, who is half-sister of Miss Fanny 
Kelly ; she had a sweet voice, was extremely pretty, 
with a beautiful figure ; possessing amiable manners, 
and good sense. Mrs. Crouch recommended her 
strenuously to Tate Wilkinson, as his first singer, 
and she was very successful. Her exemplary 
conduct, and unassuming deportment, induced the 
principal people in Yorkshire to take great notice 
of her, and introduce her into the best society. She 
there became the second wife of Mat hews; and, 
having accompanied him to London, made her first 
appearance at the Haymarket, in 1803, as Emma, 
in " Peeping Tom ;" her debut was very successful, 
and she continued for several years to fill many of 
the principal vocal characters at that theatre and 
Drury Lane. She has now retired from the stage, 
and plays her part in private life, in a manner 
which secures her the esteem and affection of all 
who know her. 

On the 25th July, Colman produced his trans- 
lation from " La Folie," of u Love laughs at Lock- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 185 

smiths," for which I composed the music. It was 
very strongly cast, and well represented in all its 
parts. Elliston's Captain Beldair was full of buoyant 
gaiety. Mathews's Risk was an inimitable piece of 
acting ; he had two songs, " The Farm Yard," and 
" Miss Bailey," both of which were always encored ; 
" Miss Bailey" was a universal favourite, and the 
piece ran the whole of the season. 

Mrs. Billington and I were engaged this year by 
Mr. Francis Aickin, for Edinburgh and Liverpool. 
Accompanied by her brother, Charles Weichsell, we 
left London in a post coach and four for Liverpool. 
Her fame drew crowded houses every night during 
a fortnight. " Artaxerxes" was performed several 
nights; she was the Mandane, I, the Artabanes, 
and Miss Duncan (now Mry. Davison) the Arbaces; 
and it was really surprising how well that lady sang 
and acted the part, considering that she had never 
been accustomed to recitative. I took a great deal 
of pains to instruct her, and was highly repaid, 
by her assiduity and truly amiable manners. 

In my intercourse with theatrical ladies, I never 
met with more equanimity of temper and good 
nature than in Mrs. Davison. Her mother was 
then with her, and played the old ladies in comedy 
and opera extremely well, and bore the character of 
an excellent parent, and kind-hearted woman. 
Mrs. Billington and I took our benefits, and both 



186 REMINISCENCES OF 

had crowded houses. After finishing our engage- 
ments at Liverpool, we went to Edinburgh. On 
our way thither we passed through Dunbar, where 
we dined; but, when we offered to pay the inn- 
keeper his bill, he refused English Bank notes, and 
informed us, that they would be of no use to us on 
the road, as they would not be taken at any of the 
inns between Dunbar and Edinburgh. The reason 
he gave was, that a few days previous, a gentleman 
and lady, who came in their carriage, had paid 
their bill with a forged ten-pound note ; and at all 
the inns, till they got to Edinburgh, defrayed their 
expenses by changing forged five and ten pound 
notes. So that with a quantum siifficit of bank 
notes in our pocket, we were absolutely in pawn at 
a little Scotch inn. Weichsell and I went to a 
banker's in the place (who, by the way, kept a 
whiskey shop), and told him our situation ; he 
turned out to be a good kind of fellow, and agreed 
to advance us 25Z. in Scotch Bank notes, on our 
depositing 100/. English until we returned them. 
This bargain, singular as it may sound, we were 
forced to make, and accordingly restored his pro- 
vincial paper, when we got to Edinburgh. When 
we arrived in the Scotch metropolis it was the time 
of Leith races, and the place was crowded, as was 
the theatre nightly. 

We were most hospitably entertained at that 



MICHAEL KELLY. 187 

beautiful sea-bathing place, Musselburgh, by Mrs. 
Esten, (the present Mrs. Scott Waring,) who had 
then quitted the stage, of which she had been a dis- 
tinguished ornament; she had a lovely, amiable, 
and highly-accomplished daughter, since married, 
to whom I had the pleasure of giving lessons in 
singing. 

Mrs. Powell, of Drury Lane Theatre, was at 
Edinburgh ; I accompanied her in a carriage to the 
races. Amongst the throng of fashionables, on the 
Sands, was the present King of France, on horse- 
back, who was then residing at Holyrood House. 
He came up to the carriage in which we were, and 
discoursed nearly an hour with us, with the most 
condescending affability. 

After reaping a golden harvest, in the fields of 
Thespis, we took leave of Scotland, and agreed, on 
our way to London, to play two nights at New- 
castle. Stephen Kemble was the manager, who 
received us kindly, and we had two overflowing 
audiences. It was at Newcastle, I first had the 
pleasure of meeting that genuine child of Momus, 
Liston; and, on my return to London, strongly 
recommended Messrs. Sheridan and Richardson to 
engage him for Drury Lane : but procrastination 
was their motto ; and it is to George (Dolman's dis- 
cernment, that the public are indebted for the in- 
valuable acquisition of Listen's unrivalled talents to 



188 REMINISCENCES OF 

the London stage: he made his first appearance in 
Zekiel Homespun, in the " Heir at Law," at the 
Haymarket Theatre (14th June, 1805). 

I this year had the pleasure of spending some 
weeks in Wales, with my kind friend Mr. William 
Haddocks, M.P. at his beautiful seat at Tre Mad- 
dock, where there was a large party of ladies and 
gentlemen assembled. All was hospitality, frolic, 
and fun, which the brilliant wit of our host con- 
tributed in a great degree to promote. We had 
horse-racing, balls, concerts, plays, and every kind 
of amusement. 

Mrs. Billington was engaged this year as prima 
donna at the Opera House. She made her first 
appearance in the serious opera of " Ferdinand in 
Mexico," by Nassolini, a charming composer ; and 
in the month of May, Winter composed, expressly 
for her, the opera of " Calypso," the music of 
which she sang delightfully, and looked the charac- 
ter divinely. 

My next musical production at Drury Lane, was 
" Cinderella ; or, the Glass Slipper." The piece 
was written by a Mr. James ; the story was well 
told in action, and the poetry of the songs appro- 
priate. I was rather fortunate in composing the 
music. The scenery, machinery, and decorations, 
were profusely splendid ; and nothing could surpass 
the fine acting of Miss Decamp, as Cinderella. It 



MICHAEL KELLY. 189 

was produced in January 1804, and performed, 
daring its first season, fifty-one nights. 

In the midst of all the eclat and success of this 
season, I had returned my income to the Commis- 
sioners of Income Tax, at 5007. per annum, which, 
it appeared, they did not think a sufficient return, 
and sent me a summons to appear before them on 
their next day of meeting. In consequence of re- 
ceiving this, I consulted a kind friend, who was my 
counsellor on all occasions, who advised me, if I felt 
myself justified by the truth, to adhere firmly to the 
amount which I had at first fixed. He promised 
to accompany me, which he did, and was witness 
to the following conversation between the Commit 
sioners and myself: 

" So, Mr. Kelly ," said one of the men of autho- 
rity, " you have returned your income to us, at 
500/. per annum : you must have a very mean 
opinion of our understandings, Sir, to think that 
you could induce us to receive such a return, when 
we are aware that your income, from your various 
professional engagements, must amount to twice or 
three times that sum/ 1 

" Sir," 1 said I, " I am free to confess I have 
erred in my return ; but vanity was the cause, and 
vanity is the badge of all my tribe. I have returned 
myself as having 500Z. per annum, when, in fact, J 
have not five hundred pence of certain income."" 



190 REMINISCENCES OF 

" Pray, Sir," said the Commissioner, " are you 
not stage-manager of the Opera House ?" 

" Yes, Sir," said I ; " but there is not even a 
nominal salary attached to that office ; I perform its 
duties to gratify my love of music." 

u Well, but Mr. Kelly," continued my examiner, 
" you teach ?" 

" I do. Sir," answered I ; " but I have no 
pupils." 

" I think," observed another gentleman, who 
had not spoken before, " that you are an oratorio 
and concert singer ?" 

" You are quite right," said I to my new anta- 
gonist ; " but I have no engagement." 

"Well, but at all events," observed my first 
inquisitor, " you have a very good salary at Drury 
Lane." 

" A very good one, indeed, Sir," answered I ; 
" but then it is never paid. 1 ' 

" But you have always a fine benefit, Sir," 
said the other, who seemed to know something of 
theatricals. 

" Always, Sir," was my reply ; " but the ex- 
penses attending it are very great, and whatever 
profit remains after defraying them, is mortgaged 
to liquidate debts incurred by building my saloon. 
The fact is, Sir, I am at present very like St. 
George's Hospital, supported by voluntary contri- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 191 

butions ; and have even less certain income, than I 
felt sufficiently vain to return." 

This unaffected expose made the Commissioners 
laugh, and the affair ended by their receiving my 
return. The story is not very dissimilar to one 
told of the celebrated Home Tooke, who, having 
returned to some Commissioners under the same 
Act, his income at two hundred pounds per annum, 
was questioned much in the same manner as myself; 
till at last one of the inquisitors said, 

" Mr. Home Tooke, you are trifling with us 
sadly ; we are aware of the manner in which you 
live, the servants you keep, the style you maintain ; 
this cannot be done for five times the amount you 
have returned. What other resources have you ?" 

" Sir," said Home Tooke, " I have, as I have 
said, only two hundred pounds a year; whatever 
else I get, I beg, borrow, or steal ; and it is a per^ 
feet matter of indifference to me to which of those 
three sources you attribute my surplus income." 
And thus ended the examination. 

On the 5th December of this year, Mr. Rey- 
nolds, the prolific dramatist, produced a musical 
afterpiece at Drury Lane, entitled " The Caravan ; 
or, the Driver and his Dog." There was some 
pretty music in it, composed by Reeve, and it had 
a very great run, and brought much money to the 
treasury. The chief attraction of the piece was a 

3 



REMINISCENCES OF 

dog called Carlo; and when he leaped into some real 
water and saved a child, the most unbounded tu- 
mults of applause followed. It was truly astonish- 
jng how the animal could have been so well trained 
to act his important character. 

One day Mr. Sheridan having dined with me, we 
went to see the performance of this wonderful dog : 
as we entered the green-room, Dignum (who played 
in the piece) said to Mr. Sheridan, with a woeful 
countenance, " Sir, there is no guarding against 
illness, it is truly lamentable to stop the run of a 

successful piece like this ; but really" " Really 

what ?" cried Sheridan, interrupting him, 

" I am so unwell," continued Dignum, " that I 
cannot go on longer than to-night." 

" You !" exclaimed Sheridan, " my good fellow, 
you terrified me ; I thought you were going to say 
that the dog was taken ill." 

Poor Dignum did not relish this reply half so 
much as the rest of the company in the green-room 
did. 

In the year 1804 the Opera House was opened by 
Mr. Francis Goold, who had been a schoolfellow of 
mine at the Rev. Dr. Burke's academy in Dublin ; 
he had passed the greatest part of his life on the 
Continent, and was extremely well acquainted with 
the arts, and theatrical matters in particular. He 
was well suited for the management of an extensive 

1 



MICHAEL KELLY. 193 

theatre, and knew music scientifically; and was, 
moreover, a truly honest, friendly man. From the 
day of his entering on the management, until the 
day of his death, I was his stage-manager, his con- 
fidential friend and adviser. 

He had the merit of engaging, for his prima 
donna, the celebrated Grassini, who made her first 
appearance in the serious opera of "La Virgine del 
Sole :" she possessed a fine counter-tenor voice, the 
lower tones of which were sublimely pathetic. In 
the sweet duet composed by Meyer, " Parto, ti las. 
cio," 11 with Viganoni, she was delightful. The 
melody of the effective grand chorus, " Qual error, 1 " 1 
in the opera, was extolled by the amateurs for its 
peculiar beauty and originality. The production of 
this melody by Meyer is rather curious, as it was re- 
counted to me by Madame Grassini herself. Meyer, 
while composing the opera of " La Virgine del Sole," 
at Venice, was at a supper party, where a young 
Englishman was present ; after supper there was 
some singing, and the young Englishman was asked 
to sing in his turn ; he sang .the Scotch ballad to 
O 1 Keefe 1 s words, in the musical entertainment of 
<< Peeping Tom/ 1 " Pretty Maud, pretty Maud/ 1 
Meyer was so pleased with the melody that he got 
pen and ink, and having requested to hear it again, 
wrote it down ; and from that simple melody, pro- 
duced the effective chorus in question. 

VOL. II. K 



11EM1NISCENCES OF 

Grassini was an admirable actress, and a beauti- 
ful woman ; her merits obtained for her the society 
and countenance of people of the highest rank in 
this country. Mrs. Siddons, amongst others, has 
often been heard to express her admiration of her 
acting, and has repeatedly visited the Opera ex- 
pressly to see her action ; and she once told Grassini 
so. 

When she was a performer at the theatre of St. 
Carlos at Naples, and a great favourite there, in 
the year 1796, she was honoured by the patronage 
of His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, whose 
name, in the various countries through which he has 
travelled, will be remembered with gratitude by 
those artists whom he liberally supported and pro- 
tected.. His Royal Highness is a perfect linguist, 
an excellent judge of music, and sings with taste. 
I have often had the honour of being admitted into 
his society, and always found him full of conde- 
scending good nature and affability. 

The grand triumph of the Opera House, how- 
ever was, when Mrs. Billington and Grassini sang 
together in " II Ratto di Proserpina, 1 " 1 composed ex- 
pressly by Winter, for those two beautiful women 
and exquisite performers. The charming duet, sung 
by them, " Vagi colli," was always loudly encored ; 
the beautiful trio, also sung by them, accompanied 
by Viganoni, the cavatina, " Che faro senza la 



MICHAEL KELLY. 1Q5 

madre ?" in which Grassini's fine pathos shone so 
conspicuous, and Mrs. Billington's brilliantly exe- 
cuted air, " Apri la madre ii core,*" will ever be 
remembered by the musical world ; indeed, the 
whole of the opera was admirable, and Winter's 
chef-d'oeuvre ; he had only three weeks to write it, 
and to keep his time, had the able assistance of his 
countryman, Mr. Cramer, the excellent master of 
His Majesty's private band, as well as composer. 
He instrumented a great part of the opera ; and in 
what he did, proved himself perfectly competent to 
the task. 

The attraction of the beautiful Proserpine (Gras- 
sini), and her mother, the lovely Ceres (Billington), 
drew great houses. " II Ratto di Proserpina" was 
the only opera in which these theatrical divinities 
appeared together ; for Mr. Goold, contrary to all 
advice, engaged them on condition that (with the 
exception of the one opera,) they should appear 
singly, on alternate Tuesdays and Saturdays ; and 
it was a sine qua non witli these goddesses, that 
their Saturdays should be held sacred ; for, strange 
as it may appear, (such is the power of fashion) 
with the same performers and the same opera in the 
game week, I have known five hundred pounds 
taken at the doors on the Saturday, and the Tues- 
day's receipts under sixty. If any thing were want- 
ing to prove the influence of fashion, and how very 



196 REMINISCENCES OF 

secondary, after all, the attraction of talent at that 
theatre is, this fact perhaps would be decisive. 

This silly engagement had, one Tuesday night, 
nearly shut up the house. It was Mrs. Billington's 
turn to perform, but she was taken with so severe a 
hoarseness that she could not sing a note, nor, 
indeed, leave her bed. Grassini was entreated by 
Mr. Goold to sing in her stead, but she declared 
that no power on earth should induce her to do so, 
as Saturday was her night, and not Tuesday. I did 
all in my power, by every argument, to prevail upon 
her, but the inexorable Syren was deaf to my en- 
treaties. I found there was no method to gain my 
point but by a ruse de guerre, and to fib through 
thick and thin. 

Fibbing, as I delicately call it, is a necessary 
accomplishment for the stage-manager of an Italian 
Opera House ; without it, one of the most difficult 
and necessary objects could never be attained, (I 
mean, keeping the ladies quiet). The art is only 
to be acquired by practice, aided by a certain pro- 
portion of impudence; in neither of which I was 
altogether deficient. For .instance, I said, upon 
this occasion, " My dear Grassini, as manager I 
ought to prevail upon you to perform, but as a 
performer myself, I enter certainly into your feel- 
ings, and think you perfectly right not to sing out 
of your turn the Saturday is yours but what I 



MICHAEL KELLY. 197 

say to you, I trust you will not repeat to Mr*' 
Goold, as it might be of serious injury to me." 

" Depend upon it, my dear Kelly," said Grassini, 
" I will not ; I look upon you, by what you have 
just said, to be my sincere friend." 

As I was leaving the room, I said, " To be sure, 
it is rather unlucky you do not sing to-night, for 
this morning a message came from the Lord Cham- 
berlain's Office, to announce the Queen's intention 
to come incog., accompanied by the Princesses, pur- 
posely to see you perform ; and a loge grillee is 
actually ordered to be prepared for them, where 
they can perfectly see and hear without being seen 
by the audience ; but of course, I'll step, myself, to 
the Lord Chamberlain's Office, and state that you 
are confined to your bed, and express your mortifi- 
cation at disappointing the Royal Party." 

" Stop, Kelly," said she ; " what you now say 
alters the case; if Her Majesty Queen Charlotte 
wishes to see " La Virgine del Sole," and to hear 
me, I am bound to obey Her Majesty's commands : 
go, then, to Goold, and tell him I will sing." 

She accordingly did perform on the Tuesday. 
When I went into her dressing-room after the first 
act, Her Majesty not having arrived, Grassini, 
suspecting that I had made up a story to cajole her, 
taxed me with the trick, and when I confessed it, 
she took it very good naturedly, and joined in the 



198 REMINISCENCES OF 

laugh at her own credulity. The feeling of respect 
to the wishes of our excellent Queen Charlotte which 
she evinced, did her infinite credit. 

On the 3rd July, 1804, I produced a musical 
piece, called " The Hunter of the Alps." It was a 
very pleasing drama, and was received with the great- 
est applause, having run thirty nights the first sea- 
son ; it is occasionally acted even now at different 
theatres. Independent of its merit, the admirable 
acting of Elliston must have ensured its success. 
I must here observe, that Harry Horrebow, when 
in his fifth year, played the Boy ; and his bye-play 
with Elliston was excellent, and always received 
with laughter and applause. He is the son of Cap- 
tain Horrebow, of the Danish naval East India 
Service. His mother is a sister of Mrs. Crouch. 
She married while very young, and very handsome, 
and went to India with her husband; and his 
ship having been wrecked on the Indian coast, she 
appeared professionally at the Calcutta Theatre, 
then under the management of Mr. Rundell, a 
favourite actor, and near relation of Mrs. Bannis- 
ter. Mrs. Horrebow subsequently returned to 
England with a small independence. 

Harry Horrebow performed also in a Grand 
Ballet at the Opera House, and in a Ballet of Action 
at Covent Garden Theatre, entitled " Aggression !" 
The piece was chiefly indebted, for its reception, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 199 

to the fine acting of Mrs.J3t. Leger. Little Harry 
was her son in the piece ; she held him aloft in one 
hand, while she fought her assailant with a toma- 
hawk. The whole of the action was picturesque 
and beautiful, and always ardently applauded. 
Harry's performance in one scene, in which he was 
preparing his bow and arrow for action, was as 
beautiful as any thing ever seen on the stage. 

One of those whimsical errors, which in my coun- 
trymen are called blunders, occurred on the first 
representation of " The Hunter of the Alps, 11 which 
is sufficiently whimsical to be recorded here. 

It was rumoured (why, it would be difficult to say) 
that a party had been made to oppose the piece at 
its production ; and I told the circumstance to an 
intimate friend, an Irish gentleman, who took fire 
at the bare mention of such under-handed treachery. 
" Just give me, 11 said he, " half a dozen orders, 
and I'll send in a few regular Geary Owen boys, 
who shall take their shilelahs under their arms ; 
and we'll see who'll be after trying to hiss your 
music." 

I accordingly furnished him with the necessary 
passports ; and, being quite aware of the presence 
of my adherents, sat in perfect security during the 
performance, although it must be confessed I occa- 
sionally heard the discordant whizzings of hisses ; 



200 REMINISCENCES OF 

however, the applause predominated, and the piece 
was entirely successful. 

After quitting the theatre, I had some friends to 
sup with me in Pall Mall, and amongst them, the 
author of the piece. We were enjoying ourselves 
with all sorts of merriment, when in bolted my Hiber- 
nian supporter, who, as he entered the room, voci- 
ferated exultingly, 

" Here we are, Mic, here we are ! We are the 
boys ! We did it, Mic ! Oh, Sir, the music is 
movingly beautiful ; and when the fellow in green 
howled about the Hill of Howth (a hunting chorus, 
" Hilloa ho !") we made no small noise. Beautiful 
indeed was the tune : but as for the play may I 
never stir if ever I saw such stuff and botheration ; 
by my honour and soul I think nobody hissed the 
speaking part half so much as we did." 

It never entered the head of my exclusive friend, 
that the success of the piece and of the music were 
identified ; on the contrary, he thought the effect of 
contrast would heighten the personal compliment to 
me. The author, whom he had never seen, and who 
was present, bore the explanation of his discern- 
ment with very good humour ; and we washed down 
the subject in copious draughts of that universal 
panacea, whiskey punch. 

On the 22nd of August Colman wrote a piece for 



MICHAEL KELLY. 201 

his own theatre, called " Gay Deceivers," for which 
I composed the music. It had many comic inci- 
dents, smart dialogue, and some sweet songs. One 
called " The Spartan Boy," was truly poetical ; the 
piece was performed a number of nights, and was 
much liked. Colman grounded it upon a French 
comic opera, entitled " Les Evenemens Imprevus," 
one of the pieces I had brought with me from Paris. 
The author of the French drama, strange to say, 
was an Irishman of the name of Hale, an officer in 
the French military service ; all his songs were 
versified for him, as he could not compose French 
poetry, though he furnished all the subjects. 

He wrote a very pretty comic opera, entitled 
" L'Amant Jaloux," and " Midas," which was in 
high favour with the Parisians. I saw it twice played 
at the Theatre Rue Favart : the subject is differ- 
ently treated from ours ; and, in my opinion, Kane 
CrHara^s burletta is worth a million of it. In Paris, 
it in a great degree gained its popularity by the 
acting of the inimitable Monsieur Trial, who repre- 
sented the Singing Shepherd ; his imitation of the 
old school of French singing (which he caricatured 
with irresistible humour) was admirable. " L'Amant 
Jaloux," " Les Evenemens Imprevus," and u Mi- 
das," were all composed by Gretry, and beautiful 
music he gave them, although not sufficiently effec- 
tive for the English taste; which, in the musical 
K 5 



202 REMINISCENCES OF 

way, requires more Cayenne than that of any other 
nation in the world. 

At this period of my life, although eminently suc- 
cessful in my professional career, my mind was 
deeply embarrassed by perceiving the gradual de- 
cline of the health of my dearest friend, Mrs. 
Crouch. I prevailed upon her to accompany me 
to Brighton, but grieved to find that she derived no 
benefit from change of air. 

On the 31st January, 1805, Tobin's popular and 
successful play of the " Honey Moon'' was produced 
at Drury Lane Theatre. It had lain for several 
seasons on the shelf, and would have remained there, 
had not Wroughton, who was then stage-manager 
of Drury Lane (having nothing in the shape of a 
new comedy to produce), rummaged the prompter's 
room, where many other plays lay neglected, it 
may be, never looked at. Luckily, one of the first 
that came to hand was " The Honey Moon," which 
Wroughton took home to read, and on his own judg- 
ment and at his own risk, had it copied, cast, and 
put into rehearsal. Thus did chance bring to light 
one of the most popular comedies that had been 
produced for many years. 

It was finely performed in all its parts, particu- 
larly the Duke by Elliston, Juliana by Miss Duncan, 
and Jaques by young Collins, who was a true 
disciple of Nature ; and, in my opinion, had not 



MICHAEL KELLY. 203 

death cut short his career, would have been an 
ornament to the stage. There was a country dance 
at the close of the fourth act, in which Elliston and 
Miss Duncan displayed such grace and agility, that 
it was always encored. There were also two songs, 
one sung by Miss Duncan, and the other by Miss 
Decamp, both composed by me. Poor Tobin had 
not the satisfaction to see his play performed. Be- 
fore it was produced he took a voyage to the 
Mediterranean, in hopes that change of climate and 
sea air would restore his health, which was very 
delicate, but death struck him in the flower of his 
youth. I had the pleasure of being well acquainted 
with him, and was introduced to him by one of his 
dearest friends, the late Miss Pope, the admirable 
actress of Drury Lane, who wished very much that 
we should write an opera together, which we had 
agreed to do. Many and many a time have I 
accompanied him to Mr. Joseph Richardson's house 
in Argyll Street, to get back his comedy of " The 
Honey Moon" from Drury Lane; but he never 
succeeded even in obtaining a glimpse of it ; excuse 
upon excuse was made for not restoring it ; and no 
wonder, for, in fact, they were ignorant that it was 
in their possession ; and after repeated calls, waiting 
jobs, and denials, the unfortunate and disappointed 
author gave up the piece as lost. 

Mr. Richardson was a good man, and one of my 



204 REMINISCENCES OF 

most intimate friends, but, like his great prototype 
and bosom friend, Sheridan, was indolence personi- 
fied ; and to-morrow was, as with Sheridan, his day 
of business. He even seemed ambitious of imitating 
the foibles of Sheridan, which was bad taste, consi- 
dering the disparity of their talents; for, as the 
Spanish poet Garcia observes, " the eagle may gaze 
stedfastly at the sun, while the butterfly is dazzled 
by the light of a taper ;" not but that Richardson 
possessed considerable literary talent. He was one 
of the chief writers in the " Rolliad," and author of 
that elegant comedy, " The Fugitive." He lived 
in intimate friendship with "Lord John Townsend, 
the Earl of Thanet,and Mr. Tickell, Mr. Sheridan's 
brother-in-law, who was the author of a comic 
opera called " The Carnival of Venice," and the 
adapter of Allan Ramsay's " Gentle Shepherd." 

Sheridan had assigned to Richardson a quarter 
share of Drury Lane Theatre, said to be worth 
twenty-five thousand pounds. The Dukes of 
Northumberland and Bedford, Earls Fitzwilliam and 
Thanet, raised fourteen thousand pounds to enable 
him to complete his purchase. He was in high 
favour with the late Duke of Northumberland, who 
brought him into Parliament for the borough of 
Newport in Cornwall. 

When last in Paris, I had been to the Theatre 
Frangais to see a petite comedy performed, entitled 



MICHAEL KELLY. 205 

" Les Deux Postes," and delighted I was with the 
manner in which it was acted. Baptiste, the elder, 
played the Blind Old Man to admiration. Indeed, 
the whole dramatis personae were perfect. I pro- 
cured a copy of the piece, and gave it to my friend 
George Colman, who, being pleased with the subject, 
resolved to write a musical afterpiece from it ; and 
his adaptation was far superior to the original, as 
indeed was every thing he did in the same way. 

It was brought out on the 28th January, under 
the title of " We Fly by Night ; or, Long Stories," 
at Covent Garden Theatre. I composed the whole 
of the music. Munden's personification of the Old 
Story-teller was perfect ; indeed, all the performers 
in the piece gave it their best support ; it was 
strongly cast. Listen and Fawcett were exquisitely 
comic ; the part of the Englishman (in the French 
original so well performed by Baptiste the younger) 
was transposed into a Frenchman, and very well 
acted by Farley ; Miss Tyrer, now Mrs. Liston, 
was truly comic in the Landlady, and sang with her 
usual sweetness; Miss Bavies was the Heroine. 
The piece was eminently successful, and had a great 
run. Both Miss Tyrer and Miss Davies were 
pupils of Mrs. Crouch and myself. Mrs. Liston 
was always attentive to her profession, and scru- 
pulously honourable in fulfilling all her engagements. 

A musical entertainment, written by Mr. Dimond 

3 



REMINISCENCES OF 

for mv benefit, was produced on the 23rd May, 
1805, entitled " Youth, Love, and Folly." I 
composed the whole of the music. It combined 
the talents of Elliston, Dowton, Mrs. Bland, and 
Mrs. Mountain ; and I had an excellent part in it. 
Miss Decamp acted a Jockey with such vivacity, 
dressed it, and looked it, so completely, that she 
might have passed as having been brought up at 
Newmarket. The versatility of this lady's talent 
was very great ; as was, to my knowledge, her zeal 
for her employers, and aifability of manners to 
every person in the theatre. When she quitted her 
home, Drury Lane, her departure was regretted 
by all. 

My management at the Opera this season was 
going on triumphantly. Winter produced a new 
serious opera, entitled " L' Amore Fraterno." 
The music was very fine. Mrs. Billington was 
the Heroine, and sang with all her usual fasci- 
nation, ably supported by the two tenor singers 
Viganoni and Braham. Winter also composed the 
music of the grand ballet of " Achilles," which was 
excellent ; as well as the ballet itself, composed by 
D'Egville, who in this, as well as many other pieces 
of a similar nature, has proved himself a great 
master of his art. His powerful acting, and that 
of the graceful and handsome Deshayes, will long 
be remembered. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 207 

The " Orazj," or, " Gli Orazj ed i Curiazj, 1 ' 
was got up for Grassini with all care and attention : 
the music (the finest serious opera Cimarosa ever 
produced) was delightful, and drew crowded houses 
to the King's Theatre, as it did at Venice, where it 
had been originally produced. In my opinion, the 
acting of Grassini in this opera was almost as 
fine as Mrs. Siddons"* : higher praise she could not 
wish for ; the passage, where she exclaimed, " O, 
Orazio, mio bene," leaning over her dead husband, 
was positively heart-rending. 

On account of the length of the operas and 
ballets, and never being able to get the lady- 
singers ready to begin in time, the operas seldom 
finished till after twelve o'clock on Saturdays. The 
Bishop of London sent to inform me, that if the 
curtain did not drop before the twelfth hour, the 
licence should be taken away, and the house shut 
up. Against his fiat there was no appeal, and 
many nights have I been obliged to order the 
dropping of the curtain in the midst of an inte- 
resting scene in the ballet. This, fpr a few nights, 
passed on without any notice being taken of it by 
the subscribers and the public; but on Saturday, 
the 15th of June (Oh ! fatal night !), the demon of 
discord appeared with all his terrors in this hitherto 
undisturbed region of harmony. The curtain fell 
before twelve o'clock, just as Deshayes and Parisot 



208 REMINISCENCES OF 

were dancing a popular pas de deux. This was the 
signal for the sports to begin ; a universal outcry 
of " Raise the curtain ! " Finish the ballet f' 
resounded from all parts of the house; hissing, 
hooting, yelling, (in which most of the ladies of 
quality joined) commenced. 

The ballet-master, D'Egville, was called for, and 
asked, " Why he allowed the curtain to drop before 
the conclusion of the ballet ?" He affirmed, that 
he had directions from me to do so. I was then 
called upon the stage, and received a volley of 
hisses, yellings, &c. I stood it all, like bricks and 
mortar ; but at last, thinking to appease them, I 
said the truth was, that an order had been re- 
ceived from the Bishop of London, to conclude 
the performance before midnight. Some person 
from the third tier of boxes, who appeared to be 
a principal spokesman, called out, " You know, 
Kelly, that you are telling a lie." I turned round 
very coolly, and, looking up at the box from whence 
the lie came, I said, " You are at a very convenient 
distance; come down on the stage, and use that 
language again, if you dare I" 

This appeal was received by the audience with 
a loud burst of applause, and a universal cry of 
" Bravo, bravo, Kelly ; well replied ! Turn him 
out ! Turn the fellow out of the boxes !" The 
gentleman left the box, but did not think proper 



MICHAEL KELLY. 209 

to make his appearance on the stage. This was 
a lucky turn as it regarded myself, but did not 
appease the rioters ; for, finding their mandate for 
drawing up the curtain and finishing the ballet not 
obeyed, they threw all the chairs out of the boxes 
into the pit, tore up the benches, broke the chan- 
deliers, jumped into the orchestra, smashed the 
piano-Forte, and continued their valorous exploits, 
by breaking all the instruments of the poor un- 
offending performers. Having achieved deeds so 
worthy of a polished nation, and imagining no more 
mischief could be done, they quitted the scene of 
their despoliation with shouts of victory ; but there 
was a finale to the drama, which they did not 
expect. Mr. Goold identified some of the ring- 
leaders, and commenced actions against them for 
damages, which cost them many hundreds of 
pounds. Mr. Goold gave up the actions ; (for, 
as Gay says, " Goold from law could take out the 
sting ;") on condition of their acknowledging their 
ill-behaviour, and amply satisfying those who had 
been injured. 

At the close of the season I went to Brighton, 
and took a house on the West Cliff, for Mrs. 
Crouch ; but she gradually grew worse. She was 
attended first by Sir Charles Blicke, and afterwards 
by Dr. Bankhead, and by my worthy friend and 
countryman, Sir Matthew Tierney, whose assiduous 



210 REMINISCENCES OF 

attentions on that trying occasion, must ever call 
for my warmest gratitude. But alas ! the decree 
had gone forth. 

When her immediate danger was known, friends 
flocked in from all quarters. Her sister, Mrs. 
Horrebow, arrived from London, and our faithful 
and attached friend, Mr. Rose, the merchant, with 
whose family we had been for many years on the 
most affectionate and confidential terms. With him 
she at all times communicated unreservedly, and to 
him confided her cares and anxieties for my future 
prosperity ; for, to the last, she was utterly in- 
capable of a selfish feeling. She arranged every 
thing relative to her affairs and her funeral as if she 
had been going a journey, and was to return and 
reap the benefit of her care. 

At length the dreadful hour arrived, over the 
occurrences of which, feelings of affection, still un- 
subdued, prompt me to draw a veil. 

The grief, however deep and sincere, of affec- 
tionate relatives and friends, can afford no interest 
to a common reader ; but I hope that I, who knew 
her best, may be permitted to say, that had she 
been so fortunate as to meet with a husband capable 
of appreciating and cherishing her estimable qua- 
lities and superior talents, she would have lived and 
died without a blemish on her fame. 

The following year, I caused a monument to 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

be erected to her memory, bearing the inscription 
which follows : 

THE REMAINS OF 

ANNA MARIA CROUCH, 

During many Years a Performer at Drury Lane Theatre. 

She combined with the purest Taste, as a Singer, the most 

elegant Simplicity as an Actress : beautiful almost beyond 

parallel in her Person, she wna equally distinguished 

by the Powers of her Mind. 

They enabled her, 
when she quitted the Stage, 

to gladden Life by the (.harms of her Conversation, and 
refine it by her Manners. 

She was born April 20lh, 1763, and 
died October 2ud, 1603. 

THIS STONE 

is Inscribed to her beloved Memory, by him whom she 
esteemed the most faithful of her Friends. 

At a period so painfully distressing as this, I 
received the greatest kindness and attention from 
my friends Major and the first Mrs. Scott Waring. 
I left Brighton with an aching heart, and went to 
my friend Rose, at Richmond, where I received a 
letter from Lord Guilford, inviting me to Wroxton 
Abbey ; to such an invitation, so warmly pressed, 
there was but one reply ; and I set off for that de- 
lightful spot, where I knew consolation and kindness. 



REMINISCENCES OF 

awaited me. I wrote thence to Mr. Graham, then 
at the head of the Board of Management of Drury 
Lane, to say, that I could not return to the theatre 
for some time ; and received a very kind letter in 
reply, conveying permission to absent myself as long 
as I thought fit. I remained at Wroxton Abbey 
for two months. 

On leaving the Earl of Guilford's, I went to pass 
a week with the Marquis of Ormonde, at Ditchley, 
in Oxfordshire, which his Lordship rented of Lord 
Dillon. The Marquis was a great lover of the 
drama, and well versed in all our dramatic poets. 
The Marchioness was a most accomplished woman. 
Every kindness and hospitality were shewn me by 
my noble host and hostess, who were too suddenly 
and shortly after snatched from this world them- 
selves. 

My two months having passed, I took my de- 
parture for London, and played Henry, in " The 
Deserter." On my first appearance, I was received, 
as I thought, with kind and sympathetic applause, 
by my friends and the audience; but I took a 
thorough dislike to the stage, and resolved to quit 
the profession, so soon as I had made some necessary 
arrangements to enable me to do so. In the inte- 
rim, I composed the music to the splendid spectacle 
of " The Forty Thieves," produced at Drury Lane, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



in April 1806, which had a very great run. Miss 
Decamp acted, sang, and danced, in the character of 
Morgiana, with wonderful effect. 

The same season, in conjunction with Attwood, I 
composed for Covent Garden, an operatic play, 
called " Adrian and Orrila." Cooke played the 
part of the Prince in it, and the very deuce he had 
liked to have played with it : for, on the morning of 
the day on which the piece was to be performed, he 
came to rehearsal so intoxicated, that he could 
scarcely stand. Both the author and myself were 
on the stage, alarmed, as may well be imagined, for 
the fate of a play, the principal serious character 
of which, was to be performed by a man dead 
drunk. 

We were determined not to let our play be acted. 
Mr. Kemble, on the contrary, (who then was stage- 
.manager, as well as co-proprietor with Mr. Harris,) 
insisted, that the play should be done, at all risks. 
Mr. Harris was sent for, to decide. In the interim, 
Cooke was pouring out a volley of abuse against 
Kemble, calling him, " Black Jack," &c. all which 
Kemble bore with Christian patience, and without 
any reply. At length Mr. Harris, with his faithful 
ally on all emergencies, the late James Brandon, the 
box book-keeper, on seeing Cooke's situation, de- 
cided that the play should not be performed on that 
night ; but that Kemble should make an apology to 



REMINISCEXCKS OF 

the audience, on the plea of Cooke's sudden indis- 
position ; which Kemble refused to do. " When 
Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war." 

Harris declared he would have the play changed. 
Kemble, on the contrary, was as peremptory to have 
it performed ; and vowed, that if it were changed, 
under the pretence of Cookers indisposition, he 
would go forward to the audience, and inform them 
of the true cause of their disappointment. 

Harris said, " Mr. Kemble, don't talk to me in 
this manner. I am chief proprietor here, and will 
have whatever orders I give, obeyed."" 

I shall always remember Kemble's countenance, 
when, with the greatest calmness, he replied : 

" Sir, you are a proprietor so am I. I bor- 
rowed a sum of money to come into this property. 
How am I to repay those who lent me that money, 
if you, from ill-placed lenity towards an individual, 
who is repeatedly from intoxication disappointing 
the public, choose to risk the dilapidation of the 
Theatre, and thereby cause my ruin ? By Heavens, 
I swear, the play shall be acted." 

Words were getting to a very high pitch, when 
Brandon coaxed Cooke into his house, put him to 
bed, and applied napkins, steeped in cold water, to 
his head, in the hopes of sobering him. He slept 
from twelve till five o^clock, when he took some very 
strong coffee, which brought him to his senses, and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 215 

he consented to play the part ; and, considering all 
circumstances, I was struck with astonishment to see 
how finely he acted it. To be sure, he had nearly 
made one trifling omission, namely, cutting out the 
whole plot of the piece- And had it not been for the 
promptness and presence of mind of the then Miss 
Smith (the present Mrs. Bartley), who played the 
character (and finely she did play it,) of Madame 
Clermont, he would have succeeded in doing so. 
" Oh ! that men should put an enemy into their 
mouths to steal away their brains !" 

No man, when sober, was better conducted, or 
possessed more affability of manners, blended with 
sound sense and good nature, than Cooke ; he had 
a fine memory, and was extremely well informed. 
I asked him, when he was acting at Brighton one 
day, to dine with me and Mrs. Crouch ; and we 
were delighted with his conversation and gentleman- 
like deportment. He took his wine cheerfully ; 
and as he was going away, I urged him to have 
another bottle ; his reply was, " Not one drop 
more. I have taken as much as I ought to take ; 
I have passed a delightful evening, and should I 
drink any mure wine, I might prove a disagreeable 
companion ; therefore, good night ;" and away he 
went. Nor could I then prevail upon him to stop. 

In the memorable time of the O. P. riot, some of 
the actors belonging to Covent Garden seemed to 



216 REMINISCENCES OF 

enjoy the disagreeable situation in which Kemble, 
as manager, stood. I was one night in Covent 
Garden Theatre, when one of them absolutely and 
roundly asserted, that Kemble was but an indifferent 
actor. Cooke was in the green-room at the time, 
and I said, " What do you think of the assertions 
of those gentlemen, Mr. Cooke ; do you think 
Kemble an indifferent actor ?" 

" No, Sir," he replied ; " I think him a very 
great one; and those who say the contrary are 
envious men, and not worthy, as actors, to wipe 
his shoes.*" It gave me unspeakable pleasure, to 
hear him give so liberal an opinion of my esteemed 
friend, even though the expression of it was some- 
what of the coarsest. 

In the same season, the Italian Opera acquired a 
powerful acquisition in Naldi, the celebrated buffo 
singer, who made his dtbut in a comic opera, en- 
titled " Le Due Nozze ed un sol Marito," and was 
received with great and deserved applause ; he was 
a fine comic actor. His performance in " II Fana- 
tico per la Musica," was unique ; he was, besides, 
an excellent musician, and a good performer on the 
violoncello. I always had a strong partiality for 
Naldi, he was a fine generous fellow. When he 
was engaged at the Opera House, Morelli, the once 
fine bass singer, was discharged ; and from an inor- 
dinate passion which he had for insuring in the 



MICHAEL KKLLY. 217 

lottery, was steeped in poverty. Naldi, until the 
day of his death, furnished him with every necessary 
of life, and allowed him a weekly stipend of two 
guineas for his pocket, which was regularly trans- 
mitted to him every Saturday night. 

Naldi, previous to the Revolution, was a lawyer 
of considerable eminence at Bologna; he was an 
excellent scholar; and his manners were those of an 
extremely well-bred man. Like many others of his 
ill-fated countrymen, he was obliged to quit his 
native city, and make a profession of that, which he 
had only studied as an accomplishment. Whilst 
performing at Venice, the beauteous eyes of Madame 
Vigano, a celebrated dancer, enslaved his heart. 
They went to Lisbon, both having an engagement 
at the Italian Opera House there. He remained 
many seasons in London, a justly deserved favourite. 
His ill stars took him to Paris, where, one day, just 
before dinner, at his friend Garcia^s house, in the 
year 1821 , he was shewing the method of cooking 
by steam, with a portable apparatus for that 
purpose; unfortunately, in consequence of some 
derangement of the machinery, an explosion took 
place, by which he was instantaneously killed. The 
awful and untimely fate of this worthy man was 
lamented by all, but by none more than myself, "for 
I had always lived with him on terms of the most 
cordial and sincere friendship. 

VOL. II. L 



218 REMINISCENCES OF 

I have often heard him describe the great hatred 
he felt for the French nation, and every thing 
belonging to it ; indeed, he carried his dislike so far, 
that although often offered the most tempting 
engagements at Paris, as first buffo at the Italian 
Opera, nothing could prevail upon, or induce him 
to go thither, until urgent business took him there 
to meet his death. His principal inducement for 
visiting Paris, was to see Madame Naldi's daughter 
(whom he loved as his own child) make her dtbut, 
which she did previous to his untimely end, and 
was much liked. Sbe is still at the theatre, and a 
favourite of the Parisians. 

On the 13th December, 1806, Madame Catalani, 
and Signor Siboni, made their debut in the serious 
opera of " La Semiramide." Madame Catalani's 
personification of Semiramide was a powerful 
effort of the scenic art she looked beautiful, and a 
queen ; her songs were given in a manner which 
electrified her audience ; she possesses, in truth, 
what the Italians call the novanta ?iove, i. e. the 
ninety-nine. When a singer possesses a superior 
fine voice, the Italians say, he, or she, has got the 
ninety-nine points out of the hundred, to make 
a fine singer. Her reception, by a crowded audience, 
was enthusiastic. Siboni, in addition to a fine tenor 
voice, and a commanding figure, was a tasteful 
singer, and a good musician ; his reception was also 






MICHAEL KELLY. 

very flattering. At the close of the season, Made- 
moiselle Parisot, who had been a popular dancer 
for some years, took leave of the stage, and married 
a Mr. Hughes, a man of property. 

In April 1807, Mr. M. G. Lewis brought out, 
at Drury Lane Theatre, his romantic drama, called 
the " Wood Daemon." It was, unquestionably, a 
work of genius ; I composed the music to it. It 
was brought forward with magnificent scenery, and 
was a favourite. 

On the 12th May, Mr. Dimond's operatic piece, 
in two acts, called the " Young Hussar," was 
produced at Drury Lane Theatre. I also composed 
the music to that, and it was, on the whole, suc- 
cessful. 

Musical pieces were often performed at Drury 
Lane : among others, Mr. Sheridan's opera of 
" The Duenna," in which I performed the part of 
Ferdinand. It was customary with me, when I 
played at night, to read my part over in the morn- 
ing, in order to refresh my memory. One morning, 
after reading the part of Ferdinand, I left the 
printed play of " The Duenna," as then acted, on 
the table. On my return home, after having taken 
my ride, I founp! Mr. Sheridan reading it, and with 
pen and ink before him, correcting it. He said to 
me, " Do you act the part of Ferdinand from this 
printed copy ?" 



REMINISCENCES OF 

I replied in the affirmative, and added, " that I 
had done so for twenty years." 

" Then,"" said he, " you have been acting great 
nonsense." He examined every sentence, and cor- 
rected it all through before he left me ; the correc- 
tions I have now in his own hand- writing. What 
could prove his negligence more, than correcting an 
opera which he had written in 1775, in the year 
1807 ; and then, for the first time, examining it, 
and abusing the manner in which it was printed ? 

I know, however, of many instances of his negli- 
gence, equally strong, two of which I will adduce 
as tolerable good specimens of character. I can 
vouch for their authenticity . 

Mr. Gotobed, the Duke of Bedford's attorney, 
put a distress into Drury Lane Theatre, for non- 
payment of the ground rent ; and the chandeliers, 
wardrobe, scenery, &c. were to be sold to satisfy his 
Grace's claim. Sheridan, aroused and alarmed at 
the threat, wrote a letter to the Duke, requesting 
him to let his claim be put in a state of liquidation, 
by Mr. Gotobed's receiving, out of the pit door 
money, 10/. per night, until the debt should be 
paid ; this was agreed upon by his Grace. More 
than a twelvemonth passed, and Sheridan was 
astonished at receiving no reply to his letter. In an 
angry mood he went to Mr. Gotobed's house, in 
Norfolk-street (I was with him at the time), com- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 22 

plaining of the transaction ; when Mr. Gotobed 
assured him, on his honour, that the Duke had sent 
an answer to his letter, above a year before. On 
hearing this, Sheridan went home, examined the table 
on which all his letters were thrown, and amongst 
them found the Duke's letter, unopened, dated 
more than twelve months back. To me, this did 
not appear very surprising ; for, when numbers of 
letters have been brought to him, at my house, 
I have seen him consign the greatest part of them to 
the fire, unopened. 

No man was ever more sore and frightened at 
criticism than he was, from his first outset in life. 
He dreaded the newspapers, and always courted 
their friendship. I have many times heard him say, 
" Let me but have the periodical press on my side, 
and there should be nothing in this country which 
I would not accomplish." 

This sensitiveness of his, as regarded newspapers, 
renders the following anecdote rather curious: 
after he had fought his famous duel at Bath, with 
Colonel Matthews, on Mrs. Sheridan's (Miss Lin- 
ley's) account, an article of the most venomous kind 
was sent from Bath, to Mr. William Woodfall, the 
editor of the Public Advertiser, in London, to 
insert in that paper. The article was so terribly bitter 
against Sheridan, that Woodfall took it to him. 
After reading it, he said to Woodfall, " My good 



222 REMINISCENCES OF 

friend, the writer of this article has done his best to 
vilify me in all ways, but he has done it badly and 
clumsily. I will write a character of myself, as 
coming from an anonymous writer, which you will 
insert in your paper. In a day or two after, I will 
send you another article, as coming from another 
anonymous correspondent, vindicating me, and 
refuting most satisfactorily, point by point, every 
particle of what has been written in the previous one."' 

Woodfall promised that he would attend to his 
wishes ; and Sheridan accordingly wrote one of the 
most vituperative articles against himself, that mor- 
tal ever penned, which he sent to Woodfall, who 
immediately inserted it in his newspaper, as agreed 
upon. 

Day after day passed ; the calumnies which She- 
ridan had invented against himself got circulation, 
and were in every body's mouth ; and day after day 
did Mr. Woodfall wait for the refutation which was 
to set all to rights, and expose the fallacy of the 
accusations; but, strange to say, Sheridan never 
could prevail upon himself to take the trouble to 
write one line in his own vindication ; and the libels 
which he invented against himself, remain to this 
hour wholly uncontradicted. 

I was well acquainted with Mr. Woodfall, who 
declared to me that this was the fact. 

Another instance of his neglect for his own 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

interest, came (amongst many others) to my know- 
ledge. He had a particular desire to have an 
audience of his late Majesty, who was then at 
Windsor ; it was on some point which he wished to 
carry, for the good of the theatre. He mentioned 
it to his present Majesty, who, with the kindness 
which on every occasion he shewed him, did him 
the honour to say, that he would take him to 
Windsor himself ; and appointed him to be at Carl- 
ton House, to set off with His Royal Highness 
precisely at eleven o'clock. He called upon me, 
and said, " My dear Mic, I am going to Windsor 
with the Prince the day after to-morrow ; I must 
be with him at eleven o'clock in the morning, to a 
moment, and to be in readiness at that early hour, 
you must give me a bed at your house ; I shall then 
only have to cross the way to Carlton House, and 
be punctual to the appointment of His Royal 
Highness. 1 ' 

I had no bed to offer him but my own, which I 
ordered to be got in readiness for him ; and he, 
with his brother-in-law, Charles Ward, came to 
dinner with me. Amongst other things at table, 
there was a roast neck of mutton, which was sent 
away untouched. As the servant was taking it out 
of the room, I observed, " There goes a dinner fit 
for a king ;" alluding to his late Majesty's known 
partiality for that particular dish. 



REMINISCENCES OF 

v 

The next morning I went out of town, to dine 
and sleep, purposely to accommodate Mr. Sheridan 
with my bed ; and got home again about four 
oVlock in the afternoon, when I was told by my 
servant, that Mr. Sheridan was up-stairs still, fast 
asleep that he had been sent for, several times, 
from Carlton House, but nothing could prevail 
upon him to get up. 

It appears that, in about an hour after I had 
quitted town, he called at the saloon, and told my 
servant-maid, that " he knew she had a dinner fit for 
a king in the house, a cold roast neck of mutton," 
and asked her if she had any wine. She told him 
there were, in a closet, five bottles of port, two 
of madeira, and one of brandy ; the whole of which, 
I found that he, Richardson, and Charles Ward, 
after eating the neck of mutton for dinner, had con- 
sumed : on hearing this, it was easy to account for 
his drowsiness in the morning. He was not able 
to raise his head from his pillow, nor did he get 
out of bed until seven o'clock, when he had some 
dinner. 

Kemble came to him in the evening, and they 
again drank very deep, and I never saw Mr. Sheri- 
dan in better spirits. Kemble was complaining of 
want of novelty at Drury Lane Theatre ; and that, 
as manager, he felt uneasy at the lack of it. " My 
dear Kemble," said Mr. Sheridan, " don't talk of 



MICHAEL KELLY. 225 

grievances now."" But Kemble still kept on saying, 
" Indeed we must seek for novelty, or the theatre will 
sink ; novelty, and novelty alone, can prop it." 

" Then,"" replied Sheridan, with a smile, " if 
you want novelty, act Hamlet, and have music 
played between your pauses." 

Kemble, however he might have felt the sarcasm, 
did not appear to take it in bad part. What made 
the joke tell at the time, was this : a few nights 
previous, while Kemble was acting Hamlet, a 
gentleman came to the pit door, and tendered half- 
price. The money-taker told him, that the third 
act was only then begun. 

The gentleman, looking at his watch, said, It 
must be impossible, for that it was half-past nine 
o'clock. 

" That is very true, Sir, 1 ' replied the money- 
taker ; " but recollect, Mr. Kemble plays Hamlet 
to-night." 

Mr. Sheridan, although a delightful companion, 
was by no means disposed to loquacity indeed, 
quite the contrary ; but when he spoke, he com- 
manded universal attention ; and what he said, de- 
served it. His conversation was easy and good- 
natured, and so strongly characterised by shrewd- 
ness, and a wit peculiarly his ow,n, that it would be 
hard, indeed, to find his equal as a companion. 
That he had failings, who will deny ? but then, who 

L5 






REMINISCENCES OF 

amongst us has not ? One thing I may safely affirm, 
that he was as great an enemy to himself as to any 
body else. 

One evening that their late Majesties honoured 
Drury Lane Theatre with their presence, the play, 
by royal command, was the " School for Scandal." 
When Mr. Sheridan M^as in attendance to light 
their Majesties to their carriage, the King said to 
him, " I am much pleased with your comedy of 
the ' School for Scandal ;"* but I am still more so, 
with your play of the ' Rivals ;' that is my fa- 
vourite, and I will never give it up." 

Her Majesty, at the same time, said, " When, 
Mr. Sheridan, shall we have another play from^your 
masterly pen ?" He replied, that " he was writing 
a comedy, which he expected very shortly to finish.^ 

I was told of this ; and the next day, walking 
with him along Piccadilly, I asked him if he had 
told the Queen, that he was writing a play ? He 
said he had, and that he actually was about one. 

" Not you," said I to him ; " you will never 
write again ; you are afraid to write. 1 ' 

He fixed his penetrating eye on me, and said, 
" Of whom am I afraid ?" 

I said, u You are afraid of the author of the 
< School for Scandal. 1 " 

I believe, at the time I made the remark, he 
thought my conjecture was right. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 227 

One evening, after we had dined together, I was 
telling him, that I was placed in a dilemma by a 
wine-merchant from Hockheim, who had been in 
London to receive orders for the sale of hock. I 
had commissioned him (as he offered me the wine at 
a cheap rate) to send me six dozen. Instead of six 
dozen, he had sent me sixteen. I was observing? 
that it was a greater quantity than I could afford 
to keep, and expressed a wish to sell part of it. 

" My dear Kelly," said Mr. Sheridan, " I would 
take it off your hands with all my heart, but I have 
not the money to pay for it ; I will, however, give you 
an inscription to place over the door of your saloon : 
Write over it, ' Michael Kelly, composer of 
wines, and importer of music."* " 

I thanked him, and said, " I will take the hint, 
Sir, and be a composer of all wines except old 
Sherry ; for that is so notorious for its intoxicating 
and pernicious qualities, that I should be afraid of 
poisoning my customers with it. 1 ' 

The above story has been told in many ways ; 
but as I have written it here, is the fact. He 
owned I had given him a Roland for his Oliver, 
and very often used to speak of it in company. 

About this time, my good friend Major Waring 
bought Peterborough House, at Parson's Green, 
which before had been the property of Mr. Meyrick ; 
and certainly there never was a more hospitable one. 



228 KEMINISCENCES OF 

The society consisted chiefly of persons of genius. 
There have I met, month after month, Lady Hamil- 
ton, Mrs. Billington, the Abbe Campbell ; the 
Irish Master of the Rolls, Mr. Curran ; and a 
worthy countryman of mine, Mr. John Glynn, of 
the Commissariat Department ; and many a time 
and oft have we heard the chimes of midnight, for 
that was the hour at which Currants lamp burned 
brightest ; and round the social board, till morning 
peeped, all was revelry and mirth. 

While I am on the subject of revelry and mirth, 
it may not be amiss to give the reader an idea .of the 
extraordinary mixtures cf serious splendour and 
comical distress, which occasionally take place in 
the world. 

Every body knows, that during the short admi- 
nistration of Mr. Fox's party, Mr. Sheridan held 
the office of Treasurer of the Navy, to which office, 
as every body also knows, a handsome residence is at- 
tached. It was during his brief authority in this situ- 
ation, that he gave a splendid fete, to which, not only 
the ministers and a long list of nobility were invited, 
but which, it was understood, His Royal Highness 
the Prince of Wales, his present Most Gracious 
Majesty, would honour with his presence : a ball 
and supper followed the dinner. Morelli, Rove- 
dino, and the Opera company, appeared in masks, 
and sang complimentary verses to the Prince, which 



MICHAEL KELLY. 229 

Pananti wrote, and I composed. The music in 
" Macbeth" was then performed ; and, in short, 
nothing could surpass the gaiety and splendour of 
the entertainment, which went off as well as was 
anticipated. 

But, previous to the great consummation of all 
the hopes and wishes of the donor, I happened to 
call at Somerset House, about half-past five ; and 
there I four>d the brilliant, highly-gifted Sheridan, 
the star of his party, and treasurer of the Navy, in 
an agony of despair. What was the cause ? had 
any accident occurred ? bad news from the Con- 
tinent ? was the Ministry tottering ? In short, 
what was it that agitated so deeply a man of Sheri- 
dan's nerve and intellect, and temporary official 
importance ? He had just discovered that there 
was not a bit of cheese in the house not even a 
paring What was to be done ? Sunday, all the 
shops shut without cheese, his dinner would be 
incomplete. 

I told him I thought some of the Italians would 
be prevailed upon to open their doors and supply 
him ; and off we went together in a hackney-coach, 
cheese-hunting, at six o'clock on a Sunday afternoon 
the dinner-hour being seven, and His Royal 
Highness the Prince expected. 

After a severe run of more than an hour, we pre- 
vailed upon a sinner, in Jermyn Street, to sell us 



REMINISCENCES OF 

some of the indispensable article, and got back just 
in time for mine host to dress to receive his company. 
I forget now who paid for the cheese, but the rest 
of the story I well remember, and have thought 
worth recording. 

It was during this season, that Mr. Frederick 
Jones, the proprietor of the Dublin Theatre, 
induced by the extraordinary popularity of Madame 
Catalani, came to London, for the purpose of en- 
gaging her. He also came to me, to engage me to 
perform with her, and conduct the operas and con- 
certs, and make up an Italian Company for the 
Rotunda, and the Dublin Theatre, which I did. 
The company consisted of Madame Catalani, Sig- 
nors Morelli, Rovedino, Deville, and myself. There 
were two operas to be performed ; " Semiramide," 
and " II Fanatico per la Musica." I was to have for 
my engagement, a free benefit. Madame Catalani 
was to have a clear half of the receipts of each night's 
performance ; and Mr. Jones the other half, for pay- 
ing all the performers, orchestra, &c. The agree- 
ment was signed and sealed in my saloon in Pall 
Mall. M. Valabrique, Madame Catalani's husband, 
was kind enough to offer me a seat in their travel- 
ling-carriage to Dublin, which I accepted. 

I was their guest throughout the whole journey, 
which was really delightful : indeed, their attention 
on this and every other occasion to me, can never 



MICHAEL KELLr. 

be forgotten by me. I always found Monsieur Vala- 
brique a very good-natured man ; aware, certainly, 
that he possessed an inestimable gem in the splendid 
talents of his wife. He was a strict guardian of 
those talents, and very properly turned them to the 
best advantage for their lovely possessor. 

Of Madame Catalani herself, I could relate num- 
berless traits of goodness ; no woman was ever more 
charitable or kind-hearted ; and as for the quality 
of her mind, I never knew a more perfect child of 
nature. She was delighted with the beauties of 
Wales, and I remember was particularly struck by 
the vale of Langollen. 

At Bangor, she heard the Welsh harp for the 
first time. The old blind harper of the house was 
in the kitchen ; thither she went, and seemed de- 
lighted with the wild and plaintive music which he 
played. But when he struck up a Welsh jig, she 
started up before all the servants in the kitchen, and 
danced as if she were wild. I thought she never 
\\ould have ceased. ,At length, however, she 
finished ; and, on quitting the kitchen, gave the 
harper two guineas. 

When we arrived in Dublin, she was received and 
caressed in every society. The concerts at the Ro- 
tunda, which I conducted, and in which I sang, were 
nightly crowded. The orchestra was ably led by 



REMINISCENCES OF 

my friend Tom Cooke, whose versatility and genius, 
in my opinion, cannot be too highly appreciated. 

One morning, at a rehearsal at the Rotunda, Ma- 
dame Catalani was so ill with a sick headache, that 
she could not rehearse her song ; and as it was 
extremely difficult for the orchestra, she begged of 
me to have it rehearsed by the basd. Cooke 
asked me for the part from which Madame Catalani 
sang ; I gave it him. He placed it on one side of 
his music desk, and on the other, his first violin part, 
from which he was to play ; and to my great asto- 
nishment, Madame Catalani's, and that of all present, 
he sang every note of the song, at the same time 
playing his own part on the violin, as leader ; thus 
killing, as it were, two birds with one stone, with the 
greatest ease. 

The song was one of Portogallo^s, in- manuscript, 
and had never been out of Madame Catalani's hands ; 
therefore, it was impossible that he could have seen 
it previously ; it was full of difficult divisions, of 
which he did not miss one. Had I not been an 
eye-witness of this extraordinary exhibition, 1 could 
not, as a musical man, have believed it. 

The prices at the theatre, on the nights Catalani 
performed, were raised to half a guinea for the pit 
and boxes, and five shillings for the gallery. At 
the piano-forte sat my old, revered, and first teacher, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 233 

Dr. Cogan. Madame Catalan! was received, and 
hailed by the Irish audience, with rapturous ap- 
plause. She sang divinely, both in the serious and 
comic operas. I always acted with her, and had a 
hearty reception from my generous countrymen. I 
had the honour of dining with her and her husband, 
at the Earl of Harrington's, Commander-in-Chief ; 
amongst others, whom I had the pleasure of meet- 
ing at his Lordship's, were Mr. W. Browne, of 
Castle Browne, whom I first met at Venice ; and 
Major Kelly, who was then Lord Harrington's 
Aide-de-camp, and whose gallantry at the Battle of 
Waterloo, will long be remembered, and duly ap- 
preciated by his country. 

I was also particularly honoured by the notice of 
his Grace the Duke of Richmond, then Lord Lieu- 
tenant. When, accompanied by the Duchess and 
family, his Grace honoured the Opera with his pre- 
sence, it was my duty, as director, to light the 
vice-regal party to their box, as they came in state. 
His Grace was particularly kind in his conversation 
and remarks ; and at the conclusion of the opera, 
when again lighting them to their carriages, her 
Grace the Duchess would not permit me to attend 
them beyond the box. I had the honour of being 
invited to the Lodge, at the Phoanix Park, and 
there found the Viceroy the same accomplished 



234 REMINISCENCES OF 

gentleman I knew him at Vienna, when he was the 
gay and lively Colonel Lennox. 

From Mr. Jones, the patentee of the theatre, 
his amiable wife, and charming family, I experi- 
enced the greatest hospitality and kindness ; their 
house was my home, and every thing was done for 
my comfort. Indeed, it would be invidious in me 
to particularise the many acts of kindness .1 received 
from my friends in Ireland. 

I went one day to dine with my witty countryman, 
Curran, the Master of the Rolls, at his pretty 
place at Rathfarnham. Among his guests was 
Counsellor Mac Nally, the author of the opera of 
" Robin Hood. 11 I passed a delightful day there. 
Many pleasant stories were told after dinner ; among 
others, one of Mac Nally's, to prove the predilection 
which some of our countrymen formerly had for 
getting into scrapes, when they first arrived in 
London. 

The night his opera of " Robin Hood" was 
brought out at Covent Garden Theatre, a young 
Irish friend of his, on his first visit to London, was 
seated on the second seat in the front boxes ; on the 
front row were two gentlemen, who, at the close of 
the first act, were saying how much they liked the 
opera, and that it did great credit to Mrs. Cowley, 
who wrote it. On hearing this, my Irish friend got 



MICHAEL KELLY. 235 

up, and tapping one of them on the shoulder, said 
to him, 

" Sir, you say that this opera was written by 
Mrs. Cowley ; now, / say it was not : this opera 
was written by Leonard Mac Nally, Esq. Barrister 
at Law, of No. 5, Pump Court, in the Temple. 
Do you take my word for it. Sir ?" 

" Most certainly, Sir," replied the astonished gen- 
tleman ; " and I feel very much obliged for the in- 
formation you have so politely given me. 11 

" Umph ! very well, Sir," said he, and sat 
down. 

At the end of the second act, he got up, and 
again accosted the same gentleman, saying, " Sir, 
upon your honour, as a gentleman, are you in your 
own mind perfectly satisfied that Leonard Mac 
Nally, Esq. Barrister at Law, of No. 5, Pump 
Court, in the Temple, has actually written this 
opera, and not Mrs. Cowley ?" 

" Most perfectly persuaded of it, Sir," said the 
gentleman, bowing. 

" Then, Sir," said the young Irishman, " I wish 
you a good night;"" but just as he was leaving the 
box, he turned to the gentleman whom he had been 
addressing, and said, 

" Pray, Sir, permit me to ask, is your friend 
there convinced, that this opera was written by Mr. 



256 EEMINISCENCES OF 

Mac Nally, Barrister at Law, of No. 5, Pump 
Court, in the Temple ?" 

" Decidedly, Sir," was the reply ; " we are both 
fully convinced of the correctness of your state- 
ment." 

" Oh, then, if that is the case, I have nothing 
more to say," said the Hibernian, " except that if 
you had not both assured me you were so, neither 
of you should be sitting quite so easy on your seats 
as you do now." 

After this parting observation, he withdrew, and 
did not return to the box. 

I have often heard it said, that Irishmen are 
generally prone to be troublesome and quarrelsome. 
Having, in the different countries I have visited, 
had the pleasure of mixing much with them, I can 
aver, from experience, that the contrary is the 
case, and that, generally speaking, they are far 
from being either the one or the other ; and if they 
find that an affront is not intended, no nation in the 
universe will join more freely in the laugh, if even 
against themselves. I will take leave to quote an 
example, Curran versus Mac Nally : 

Mac Nally was very lame ; and when walking, 
had an unfortunate limp, which he could not bear 
to be told of. At the time of the Rebellion, he was 
seized with a military ardour ; and when the different 



MICHAEL KELLY. 237 

volunteer corps were forming in Dublin, that of 
the lawyers was organized. Meeting with Curran, 
Mac Nally said, " My dear friend, these are not 
times for a man to be idle ; I am determined to enter 
the Lawyers'* Corps, and follow the camp." 

" You follow the camp, my little limb of the 
law ?" said the wit ; " tut, tut, renounce the idea ; 
you never can be a disciplinarian."' 

" And why not, Mr. Curran ?" said Mac Nally. 
' " For this reason," said Curran ; " the moment 
you were ordered to march, you would lialt" 

But I fear I am digressing somewhat too wildly. 
To resume : 

After spending a delightful summer, which was 
productive both of pleasure and profit, I returned 
to London about the end of September 1807. On 
the 3rd May, 1808, Mr. Cumberland produced, at 
Drury Lane Theatre, a piece entitled " The Jew of 
Mogadore, :< * to which I composed the music: It 
was with great reluctance that the Board of Ma- 
nagement at Drury Lane accepted it : therefore, 
when I had finished the music of the first act, I 
rested upon my oars until I knew their final deter- 
mination. I met Mr. Sheridan one day in Essex 
Street in the Strand, and told him of it. He desired 
me to go on with it by all means ; " For," said he, 
" if the opera should fail, you will fall with a fine 
classical scholar, and elegant writer, as well as a 
i 



238 REMINISCENCES OF 

sound dramatist," (such was his expressed opinion 
of Cumberland's abilities.) " Go, instantly," con- 
tinued he, " to those discerning critics, who call 
themselves the { Board of Management, 1 and tell 
them, from me, if you please, that they are all 
asses, to presume to sit in judgment on the writings 
of such a man as Cumberland ; and say, further, 
that / order the opera to be accepted, and put into 
rehearsal." 

" And pray, Sir," said I, " in what light am I 
to view this ' Board of Management ?' What are 
they ?" 

" Pegs to hang hats upon," said Sheridan. 

I went to the pegs, communicated Mr. Sheridan's 
command, and the opera was performed accordingly- 
Braham sang in it charmingly. 

On the 26th May, 1808, my friend, Miss Pope, 
quitted Drury Lane stage, as Deborah Dowlas, in 
the " Heir at Law," and spoke a farewell address 
in the character of Audrey. I went there to 
witness it. No lady, on or off the stage, bore a 
higher character than Miss Pope. She was an 
actress of the old school, and had the honour of 
being patronised by his late Majesty George the 
Third. She made her first entree at Drury Lane 
Theatre in the year 1759, in the part of Corinna, 
in the comedy of " The Confederacy." . She had 
been the favourite pupil of the celebrated Kate 

3 



MICHAEL KELLY. 239 

Clive, and was brought forward under the auspices 
of that great comic actress. 

On the 30th May, 1808, I witnessed the retire- 
ment of my friend, Madame Storace, from the stage, 
in her favourite part of Margaretta, in " No Song, 
no Supper." Colman wrote a farewell address for 
her, which she sang in character ; and quitted public 
life, esteemed and regretted by all those who were 
acquainted with her. I continued in intimate friend- 
ship with her to the day of her death. 

One Thursday she dined with me in Russell- 
street. Signer Ambrogetti, the comic singer, and 
my friend, Mr. Savory, of Bond-street, me.t her 
at dinner; in the course of the evening, she was 
all at once taken with a shivering fit, and appeared 
very ill. When her carriage came to take her home, 
Mr. Savory requested her to be bled, and to send 
for Dr. Hooper. On the following day Dr. Hooper 
went to her country-house at Herne Hill, and ad- 
vised her by all means to be bled, but she would 
not consent because it was Friday ; thus, in fact> 
she sacrificed herself to /superstition. It was confi- 
dently asserted, that had she lost blood, her life 
might have been saved. 

Superstition often takes possession of the strongest 
minds. A more powerful instance of the truth of 
this cannot be cited than that of Mr. Sheridan. 
No mortal ever was more superstitious than he, 
as I can aver from my own knowledge. No 



240 , REMINISCENCES OF 

power could prevail upon him to commence any 
business, or set out upon a journey, on a Friday ; 
nor would he allow, if lie possibly could avoid it, a 
piece to be produced at his theatre on a Friday 
night. It is a well-known fact (which he never 
denied), that when Tom Sheridan was under the 
tuition of Doctor Parr, in Warwickshire, his father 
dreamt that he fell from a tree in an orchard, and 
broke his neck. He took alarm, and sent for his 
boy to London, instanter. The Doctor obeyed the 
mandate, and brought his pupil to town ; and I 
had the pleasure to meet him at Mr. Sheridan's, at 
dinner. I thought him (though an oddity) very 
clever and communicative : he was a determined 
smoker, and, on that day, not a little of a soaker ; 
lie drank a great deal of wine, to say nothing of a 
copious exhibition of hollands and water afterwards. 

I remember, when he was asked whom he con- 
sidered the first Greek scholar in Europe, he aji- 
swered, " The first Grecian scholar living is Person, 
the third is Dr. Burney, I leave you to guess who 
is the second." 

On the 13th June, 1808, Madame Catalani 
performed a scena from " Semiramide," at Drury 
Lane Theatre, for my benefit, in which I also per- 
formed On the 17th June, 1808, I played in 
" No Song, no Supper," which was my last ap- 
pearance on the Drury Lane stage, where I had 
been chiefly the principal male singer for twenty 



MICHAEL KELLY. 241 

years, but I did not think myself of sufficient con- 
sequence to take a formal leave of the public. 

I then made an arrangement with Mr. Sheridan, 
to be Musical Director of Drury Lane Theatre, and 
to continue Stage Manager of the Opera House. 
While on the stage, I did every thing in my power, 
by persevering industry in my profession, to merit 
the patronage and liberality which I experienced 
from an indulgent public. From the first moment 
I trod the boards of Drury Lane to the moment I 
quitted it, as far as my feeble efforts went, I endea- 
voured to support it, through all its perplexities. I 
had a veneration for the theatre where Garrick and 
Sheridan had presided, and its best interests were 
nearest my heart. I felt a proud distinction at 
having been so fortunate, as for five and twenty years 
to have enjoyed the most friendly intimacy and 
unreserved confidence of its highly-gifted pro- 
prietor ; whom I look upon, take him for all in 
all, to have been one of the most extraordinary 
men of the age in which he lived. Mr. Sheridan 
did me the honour (as his friend,) to introduce 
me to the best society, and the first literary men 
in the kingdom, who all sought his company. They 
were sure to find him almost every night at my 
house, where he was the great magnet of attraction. 

One day, I had the pleasure of having at my 
table to dinner, the Marquis of Ormonde, the 

VOL. II. M 



REMINISCENCES OF 

Earl of Guilford, Sir Charles Bampfylde, Messrs. 
Sheridan, Richardson, Colraan, my countryman 
Curran, John Kemble, and Tom Sheridan. A 
greater power of talent seldom or ever was con- 
gregated ; but, alas ! every one of those highly- 
distinguished individuals (my valued friend George 
Colman excepted) has been taken from us. 

Some time previous to my retirement from Drury 
Lane stage, I had made Madame Catalani a promise 
to accompany her, for the second time, to Dublin. 
I set off with them on the 1st of August, 1808 ; 
she was engaged by Mr. Jones, on similar terms 
to those she received on her first engagement there ; 
mine, too, were the same. Signer Siboni and Signor 
Spagnoletti were also engaged. We had to per- 
form two grand serious operas, " La Mitridate,^ 
and " La.Didone Abbandonata," in both of which 
Madame Catalani exerted herself beyond her former 
efforts ; but " La Didone" was her triomphe, both 
as an actress and a singer. Siboni performed the 
haughty larbas, the Moorish king ; and I, the pious 
Eneas. After performing six nights in Dublin, we 
proceeded to give six performances at Cork. The 
Cork audience are passionately fond of music, and 
Catalani' s reception was enthusiastic ; and I expe- 
rienced the most hospitable reception from nume- 
rous friends. 

Walking on the Parade, on the second morning 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



<of my arrival, with Mr. Townsend, proprietor of 
die Correspondent newspaper, he pointed out a very 
fine-looking elderly gentleman, standing at the club- 
house door, and told me that he was one of the most 
eccentric men in the world his name was O'Reilly ; 
he had served many years in the Irish Brigade, in 
Germany and Prussia, where he had been distin- 
guished as an excellent officer. Mr. Townsend 
added, " We reckon him here a great epicure, and 
he piques himself on being a great judge of the 
culinary art, as well as of wines. His good nature 
and pleasantry have introduced him to the best 
society, particularly among the Roman Catholics, 
where he is always a welcome guest. He speaks 
German, French, and Italian, fluently; and con- 
stantly, while speaking English, with a determined 
Irish brogue, mixes all those languages in every 
sentence. It is immaterial to him, whether the 
person he is talking to understand him or not 
on he goes, stop him who can. He is a great friend 
of Frederick Jones ; and it is an absolute fact, that 
Jones took such a liking to him the first day he 
came to dine with him, that he made him stay at 
his house all night, and he has lived with him ever 
since that is to say, for seven years. Jones now 
never comes to Cork, but sends the Captain down 
when the Dublin company perform here. He is 
extremely useful, keeps a strict look-out for every 



244 REMINISCENCES OF 

thing that concerns his friencTs interests, and is a 
perfect Cerberus among his door-keepers at the 
theatre ; but let us cross over, and I will introduce 
you, I am sure you will be pleased with him."" 

I was accordingly presented to him. No sooner 
had the noble Captain shaken me heartily by the 
hand, than he exclaimed, 

" Bon jour, mon cher Mic, je suis bien aisc de 
vous voir, as we say in France. J^etois facile that 
I missed meeting you when you was last in Dublin ; 
but I was obliged to go to the County Galway to 
see a brother officer, who formerly served with me 
in Germany, as lierliclt a carle., as we say in German, 
as ever smelt gunpowder. By the God of war, il 
cst brave, comme son epee c^est-a-dire, as brave as 
his sword. Now tell me, how go on your brother 
Joe, and your brother Mark ; your brother Pat, 
poor fellow, lost his life I know in the East Indies, 
but Jest la fortune de la guerre, and he died avec 
honneur. Your sister Mary, too, how is she ? By 
my soul, she is as good a hearted, kind creature, as 
ever lived ; but entre nous, soit dit, she is rather 
plain, ma non e bella, quelcJi 1 e bella, e bella quel die 
place, as we say in Italian." 

" Now, Captain," said I, " after the flattering en- 
comiums you have bestowed on my sister's beauty, 
may I ask how you became so well acquainted 
with my family concerns ?" 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

" Parbleu ! my dear Mic," said the Captain ; 
" well I may be, for sure your mother and my 
mother were sisters." 

On comparing notes, I found that such was the 
fact. When I was a boy, and before I left Dublin 
for Italy, I remember my mother often mentioning 
a nephew of hers, of the name of O'Reilly, who had 
been sent to Germany when quite a lad (many years 
before) to a relation of his father, who was in the 
Irish Brigade at Prague. Young O'Reilly entered 
the regiment as a cadet ; he afterwards went into 
the Prussian service, but my mother heard no more 
of him. 

The Captain told me, furthermore, that he had 
been cheated some years before out of a small pro- 
perty which his father left him in the County Meath, 
by a man whom he thought his best friend. " How- 
ever," said the Captain, " I had my satisfaction by 
calling him out, and putting a bullet through his 
hat; but, nevertheless, all the little property that 
was left me is gone. But, grace au citl, I have 
never sullied my reputation, nor injured mortal, and 
for that, ' the gods will take care of Cato.' In all 
my misfortunes, cousin, I have never parted with 
the family sword, which was never drawn in a dirty 
cause ; and there it hangs now in a little cabin 
which I have got in the County Meath. Should 
ever Freddy Jones discard me, I will end my days 
in riposo e pace with the whole universal world." 



S46 IIEMINISC'ENCES OF 

I have often thought, if Mr. Sheridan or Colmanr 
had been acquainted with this worthy, yet eccentric 
man, he would have served them as a model for an 
Irish character; and how Jack Johnstone would 
have acted it. One of the Captain's eccentricities I 
had nearly forgotten to mention : he was never 
without lemons, shalots, and Cayenne pepper, in a 
case in his pocket, which he always produced at 
table. The lemons, he said, were to squeeze over 
his oysters, a la Francai.se. The shalots for a beef- 
steak, a TAnglalse; and the Cayenne for every dish, 
foreign and domestic : nor should I, in justice to 
my relation, omit a joke of his which is almost as 
piquant as his sauce. 

One day he was in the streets of Clonmel, when 
the Tipperary militia were marching out of that 
town ; their Colonel's father had formerly been a 
miller, and amassed a large fortune, which he had 
bequeathed to the colonel himself. O'Reilly seeing 
the gallant officer at the head of the corps, exclaimed, 
" By the god of war, here comes Marshal Sacks ? 
with tlnejlour of Tipperary at his back." 

I quitted Cork for Limerick, with gratitude for 
the many favours bestowed upon me by its warm- 
hearted inhabitants. I was delighted to see how 
much Limerick had improved since I last saw is. 
The new town is beautiful. We had only time to 
perform four nights there the prices of the theatre 
were doubled, the houses overflowed every nighty 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

all the nobility of the county of Clare poured 
into the city, and the hotels and inns were crowded 
to excess. I passed a delightful week there ; and 
my cousin, the Captain, seemed as much at home in 
Limerick as he had been at Cork. 

Mr. Logier, the inventor of a method of teaching 
music, to which he has given his name, was living 
in the barracks at Limerick at that time. He 
belonged to the Marquis of Ormonde's regiment of 
militia, which was quartered there. The finest 
trumpet player I ever heard in any country played 
in our orchestra ; his execution on the instrument 
almost baffled belief; his name was Willman, and 
he is the brother of Mr. Willman, the principal cla- 
rionet, and an equally talented perfomer on that 
instrument, at the King's Theatre. 

On our last night in Limerick, just in the middle of 
a most impressive and beautiful duet, which Catalani 
and I were singing in " Didone," and at a moment 
when the whole house was wrapt in attention, a man 
vociferated from the gallery, " Mr. Kelly, will you 
be good enough to favour us with ( O thou wert 
born to please me ?** " This unexpected request 
produced a loud laugh from the audience. Catalani 
asked me what the meaning of it was ; I answered, 
that it was nothing but a peculiar manner of 
applauding. My gallery friend, I suppose, recol- 
lected poor Mrs. Crouch and myself, singing " Oh; 



248 REMINISCENCES OF 

thou wert born to please me," at the same theatre 
many years previous, and wished to hear it again. 

After concluding my engagement at Limerick, 
we returned to Dublin, where we were to perform 
six nights, previous to our quitting Ireland. Having 
no occasion for rehearsals, I used to visit the envi- 
rons every day. 

One morning, riding with an old friend of mine, 
we saw, near the Black Rock, two strapping, shirt- 
less fellows, real sans culottes, on the back of a poor 
half-starved horse, which seemed to be sinking 
under the weight, hardly able to crawl along the 
road. On my friend saying, what a pity it was to 
load the poor beast with two outside passengers, 
one of the riders who overheard him, cried out, 
" Please your honour and glory, Sir, will you be 
pleased to tell us, are the hounds far before us ?" 

At the close of my engagements in Ireland, I set 
off for London, and in Wales, met my friend, Mr. 
William Haddocks, who joined me, and a delightful 
journey we had. I arrived in Pall-Mali on the 
21st of September, and heard with real concern of 
the destruction of Covent Garden Theatre, the night 
previous, by fire. However, the managers opened 
the Opera House in six days (so that the per- 
formers suffered little or nothing), with the tragedy 
of "Douglas," and the musical entertainment of 
" llosina." 



MICHAEL KELLY. 249 

My first production at Drury Lane this year was 
the music to " Venoni," a play by M. G. Lewis, 
Esq. It was produced on the 1st December, but 
was withdrawn after five nights, not meeting with 
success at first. The last act of this piece, as origi- 
nally constructed, proved offensive to the feelings of 
the audience ; and although the previous acts 
excited the deepest interest, and received sufficient 
applause, nevertheless the unlucky catastrophe was 
as constantly hissed. The author finding the public- 
determined on this point, conceived the whimsical 
(and, I believe, unexampled) idea of withdrawing 
the play for a time, and reproducing it with an 
entirely new last act, constructed out of the most 
opposite materials from those of the original one. 
Strange as this scheme may appear, it succeeded. 
" Venoni" re-appeared with a bran-new catastrophe, 
and proved a favourite with the town through the 
remainder of the season. 

Though the destruction of Covent Garden 
Theatre fell lightly on the performers, it was 
severely felt by the proprietors, particularly by 
Kemble, who had staked his all in the purchase of 
his share ; however, the sympathy his loss excited 
was powerful, and the liberality he met with, noble ; 
it was said that his present Majesty presented him 
with a thousand pounds, and that the Puke of 
Northumberland offered him ten thousand, which 
M 5 



250 REMINISCENCES OF 

he refused as a gift, but accepted as a loan, for s> 
term of years, and gave his bond to his Grace for 
the re-payment. 

There is a little history connected with this sub- 
ject, which, from being highly creditable to all 
parties concerned, the public may feel pleased to 
know : 

Mr. Richard Wilson, of Lincoln's Inn Fields, 
(whom I am proud to call a friend of mine, having 
received many marks of kindness and hospitality 
from him, as well as from his lady and amiable- 
daughter, now Mrs. Randolph,) was the solicitor 
and confidential man of business of his Grace the 
late Duke of Northumberland, who, knowing that 
he was on terms of intimacy with Kemble, wished 
him to prevail upon that great actor to give Earl 
Percy, the present Duke, some lessons in elocution. 

Kemble, when the request was made, instantly 
acceded to it, making only one in return, which was, 
that no remuneration should be offered him, as he 
felt amply repaid by having it in his power to 
gratify the Duke. 

The origin of this feeling in Kemble is curious, 
and from its trivial nature, not generally known. 
He told me himself, that in the year 1779 he was 
acting at York, where a play was in preparation, in 
the success of which he was deeply interested : the 
Duke of Northumberland commanded two troops of 






MICHAEL KELLY. 251 

the King's own Dragoons, then quartered in the 
city. Kemble applied to one of the officers to 
permit some of the men off duty to attend the 
theatre to walk in the processions, to which appli- 
cation he received a somewhat ungracious reply, 
accompanied by an observation that the soldiers had 
other duties to attend to. He then wrote to the 
Duke, to ask his permission, as commanding-officer, 
and immediately received a favourable answer. 

66 The handsome manner, 1 ' said Kemble to me, 
" in which his Grace conferred the favour, enhanced 
the obligation, and never has been forgotten by me ; 
to be able to evince the feeling I entertain, by shew- 
ing his Grace's son every attention in my power, is 
my highest gratification and sufficient inducement 
to me to become, as you facetiously call me, * a 
master of scholars,' which no sum of money could 
induce me to do." 

On the 31st of December, 1808, the first stone 
of the new theatre was laid by his present Majesty, 
then Prince of Wales, as Grand Master of Free- 
masons ; and a brilliant sight it was. On that day 
Kemble, it is reported, received a letter from the 
Duke of Northumberland, enclosing the bond for 
ten thousand pounds, which I have just mentioned, 
in which his Grace said, " That as it was a day of 
rejoicing, he concluded there would be a bonfire, 
and he requested that the enclosed obligation might 



REMINISCENCES OF 

be thrown in to heighten the flames." This magni- 
ficent donation was worthy of the house of Percy ; 
and the delicate and handsome manner in which it 
was conferred, richly deserves to be recorded. 

On the 24th February, 1809, Mr. Richard 
Wilson gave a dinner to the principal actors and 
officers of Drury Lane Theatre, at his house in 
Lincoln's Inn Fields. All was mirth and glee : it 
was about eleven o'clock when Mr. Wilson rose, 
and drank " Prosperity and Success to Drury Lane 
Theatre ;" we filled a bumper to the toast ; and at 
the very moment we were raising the glasses to our 
lips, repeating " Success to Drury Lane Theatre,' 1 
in rushed the younger Miss Wilson, now Mrs. 
Montague Oxenden, and screamed out, that " Drury 
Lane Theatre was in flames !" We ran into the 
Square, and saw the dreadful sight ; the fire raged 
with such fury that it perfectly illuminated Lin- 
coln's Inn Fields with the brightness of day. We 
proceeded to the scene of destruction; Messrs. 
Peake and Dunn, the treasurers, dashed up stairs, 
at the hazard of their lives, to the iron chest, in 
which papers of the greatest consequence were 
deposited. With the aid of two intrepid firemen 
they succeeded in getting the chest into the street ; 
little else was saved. 

I had not only the poignant grief of beholding 
the magnificent structure burning with merciless 






MICHAEL KELLY. 253 

fury, but of knowing that all the scores of the 
operas which I had composed for the theatre, the 
labour of years, were then consuming: it was an 
appalling sight; and, with a heavy heart, I walked 
home to Pall Mall. 

At the door, I found my servant waiting for me, 
who told me that two gentlemen had just called, 
and, finding I was not at home, had said, " Tell 
your master, when he comes home, that Drury 
Lane is now in flames, and that the Opera House 
shall go next." I made every effort to trace these 
obliging personages, but never heard any thing 
more of them. 

Mr. Sheridan was in the House of Commons 
when the dreadful event was made known, and the 
debate was one in which he was taking a prominent 
part ; in compliment to his feelings, it was moved 
that the House should. adjourn. 

Mr. Sheridan said, that he gratefully appreciated 
such a mark of attention, but he would not allow an 
adjournment, for that u Public duty ought to 
precede all private interest ;" and with Roman forti- 
tude he remained at his post while his playhouse 
was burning. 

The next morning, several of the principal 
performers called in Pali-Mall to consider what 
could be done in the dreadful position of affairs ; 
and while we were debating, a message came from 



254s REMINISCENCES OF 

Mr. Sheridan, to know where he could meet us ? 
Wroughton, who was at that time our stage-ma- 
nager, asked John Bannister, Dowton, myself,^md 
a few more of the principal actors, to dine with 
him in Gower Street ; and wrote to Mr. Sheridan 
to request he would meet us there, which he punc- 
tually did. 

After dinner, lamenting the dreadful situation in 
which we, as well as himself, were placed by the 
conflagration, he said, that the first consideration 
was, to find a place where we could perform, under 
his " Drury Lane Patent ;"" for, though the theatre 
was destroyed, the patent was not, and that he 
would make every effort in his power to forward 
the interests and wishes of the company, without 
any private consideration of his own, until arrange- 
ments might be made to rebuild Drury Lane 
Theatre. The only request he would make, which 
was with him a sine qua non, was, that the whole of 
the company, with heart and hand, should stand by 
one another, and that there should be no separation ; 
" For, 1 ' said he, "I am aware that many of the 
principal performers may get profitable engage- 
ments at the different provincial theatres, but what 
then would become of the inferior ones, some of 
whom have large families ? Heaven forbid that they 
should be deserted ! No : I most earnestly recom- 
mend and entreat, that every individual belonging 



MICHAEL KELLY. 255 

to the concern should be taken care of. Let us 
make a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altoge- 
ther ; and, above all, make the general good our sole 
consideration. Elect yourselves into a committee ; 
but keep in your remembrance even the poor 
sweepers of the stage, who, with their children, 
must starve, if not protected by your fostering 
care." 

Such were the sentiments delivered, in my pre- 
sence y by Mr. Sheridan, who y on every occasion 
which called for the expression of his feeling towards 
our profession, shewed himself the warmest advocate 
and supporter of its reputation and prosperity ; in 
confirmation of which, I cannot refrain from quoting 
the following passage from a letter which he wrote 
to me some years since, upon my consulting him 
as to some matters of importance to my professional 
interests : 

" In my way," he observes, "of viewing the 
profession, and treating its professors, I never con- 
sidered it fit that the proprietors, should, everv year, 
weigh and gauge the decrease of theatrical power 
which time or accident may have occasioned ; and, 
overlooking past services, hunt after every change 
and substitute which may, for the moment, be ad- 
vantageous." 

This feeling was highly honourable to Mr. She- 
ridan, not only in his character of manager of a. 



256 REMINISCENCES OF 

theatre, but as indicative of a filial feeling of respect 
for the profession of which his father had been a 
member, and by the exercise of which, he had been 
enabled to give the splendid abilities of his gifted son 
the advantages of the best cultivation. 

On the 25th March, 1809, the Drury Lane com- 
pany performed at the Opera House ;' Mr. Taylor, 
the proprietor, having granted the use of his theatre 
gratuitously for three nights to the performers. 

About this period, Mr. Sheridan took me to dine 
with his Grace the Duke of Norfolk, who had a 
happy knack of telling a story. One, I remember, 
he told us with great naivete. 

Amongst his Grace's owls, at Arundel Castle, 
was one which was named by its keeper, Lord 
Thurlow, from an imaginary likeness between the 
bird and his Lordship. One morning, when the 
Duke was closeted with his solicitor, with whom he 
was in deep consultation upon some electioneering 
business, the old owl-keeper knocked at the library 
door, and said, " My Lord, I have great news to 

ffive your Grace." 

& j 

" Well," said the Duke, what is it ?" 
" Why, my Lord," said the man, " Lord Thur- 
low has laid an egg this morning." 

Not recollecting, at the moment, that the owl had 
been nick-named " Lord Thurlow,' 1 the Duke was 
not a little astonished; and, until the keeper ex- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 257 

plained, the solicitor was dreadfully scandalized by 
such an audacious calumny upon a noble Lord, who 
had been so long sitting upon the woolsack. 

The Drury Lane company, under a licence from 
the Lord Chamberlain, commenced, on the llth of 
April, 1809, the regular drama, at the Lyceum, in. 
the Strand. The opening play was " John Bull ;*" 
they closed their season there on the 12th of June, 
and re-opened on the 25th of September. 

On the 18th of September, 1809, the new Co- 
vent Garden Theatre opened with " Macbeth," and 
the " Quaker." 

On the 25th of October, Mr. Arnold brought out, 
at the Lyceum, a musical piece of his own writing, 
entitled " The Jubilee." I composed the music, 
and it ran a number of nights. 

The Drury Lane company were performing at 
the Lyceum, under the firm of Tom Sheridan, the 
late Colonel Greville, and Mr. Arnold, and were 
very successful ; and every person belonging to the 
establishment were regularly paid their full salaries. 
Tom Sheridan, for some part of the time, was ma- 
nager, and evinced great talent and industry. I 
had the pleasure of living on terms of intimacy 
with him ; and many a time, when he used to come 
to town from Cambridge, with his friend, the 
Honourable Berkeley Craven, have they favoured 
me with their company. 



258 EEMINISCENCES OF 

Tom Sheridan did not "ape his sire" in all 
things ; for whenever he made an appointment, he 
was punctuality personified. In every transaction 
I had with him, I always found him uniformly cor- 
rect; nor did he unfrequently lament his father's 
indolence and want of regularity, although he had 
(indeed naturally) a high veneration for his talents. 

Tom Sheridan had a good voice, and true taste 
for music, which, added to his intellectual qualities 
and superior accomplishments, caused his society to 
be sought with the greatest avidity. 

The two Sheridans were supping with me one 
night after the opera, at a period when Tom expected 
to get into Parliament. 

" I think, father," said he, " that many men, who 
are called great patriots in the House of Commons, 
are great humbugs. For my own part, if I get 
into Parliament, I will pledge myself to no party, 
but write upon my forehead, in legible characters, 
* To be let. 1 " 

" And under that, Tom," said his father, " write 
' Unfurnished.'" 

Tom took the joke, but was even with him on 
another occasion. 

Mr. Sheridan had a cottage about half a mile from 
Hounslow Heath. Tom being very short of cash, 
asked his father to let him have some. 

" Money I have none," was the reply. 



HIICHAEL K.ELLT. 

" Be the consequence what it may, money I must 
have," said Tom. 

" If that is the case, my dear Tom," said the 
affectionate parent, " you will find a case of loaded 
pistols up-stairs, and a horse ready saddled in the 
stable, the night is dark, and you are within half 
a mile of Hounslow Heath." 

" I understand what you mean," said Tom, 
" but I tried that last night. I unluckily stopped 
Peake, your treasurer, who told me, that you had 
been beforehand with him, and had robbed him of 
every sixpence he had in the world." 

It is curious, after knowing such stories, and re- 
membering the general habits and pursuits of Mr. 
Sheridan, to look at the effusions of his muse, in 
which he privately vented his feelings. 

One day, waiting at his house, I saw under the 
table, half a sheet of apparently waste paper ; on 
examining it, I found it was a ballad, in Mr. Sheri- 
dan's hand-writing; I brought it away with, me, 
and have it now in my possession. On my return 
home, the words seemed to me beautiful, and I 
set them to music. It is, of all my songs, my 
greatest favourite, as the poetry always brings to 
my mind the mournful recollection of past happy 
days. It was also a great favourite with Mr. 
Sheridan, and often has he made me sing it to him~ 
I here insert it : 



260 REMINISCENCES OF 

I. 

No more shall the spring my lost pleasure restore, 

Uncheer'd, I still wander alone, 
And, sunk in dejection, for ever deplore 

The sweets of the days that are gone. 
While the sun as it rises, to others shines bright, 

I think how it formerly shone ; 
While others cull blossoms, I find but a blight, 

And sigh for the days that are gone. 

TI. 

I stray where the dew falls, through moon-lighted groves, 

And list to the nightingale's song, 
Her plaints still remind me of long banish'd joys, 

And the sweets of the days that are gone. 
Each dew-drop that steals from the dark eye of night, 

Is a tear for the bliss that is flown ; 
While others cull blossoms, I fin;l but a blight, 

And sigh for the days that are gone. 

My kind friends, Major and Mrs. Waring, in the 
month of August 1810, were going to spend some 
time at Southampton, and make the tour of the Isle 
of Wight ; they offered me a seat in their carriage, 
which I accepted. We spent a most agreeable 
fortnight at Southampton ; the theatre was then 
open under the management of Messrs. Kelly and 
Maxwell, also managers of the Portsmouth theatre. 
Mrs. Siddons, who was in the neighbourhood, on a 
visit to Mrs. Fitzhugh, was performing, as were 
also my friends Jack Bannister and Pope. 

I there saw Mrs. Brereton, an actress belonging 



MICHAEL KELLY. 81 

to the company, perform Mrs. Haller in the 
" Stranger," and thought so highly of it, that I 
recommended my friend, George Colman, to engage 
her at the Haymarket, which he did ; and after- 
wards I recommended her to Drury Lane. 

I was delighted with the tour of the Isle of Wight, 
where we staid till the beginning of October. 

At this time I had frequent invitations from the 
late Lord Eardley, to visit his beautiful mansion, 
Belvidere, in Kent. I often experienced great hos- 
pitality from his Lordship there, as well as in 
London, and at Brighton ; and had the pleasure of 
meeting Lord and Lady Say and Sele, and their 
amiable and accomplished daughter, the Honourable 
Miss Twiselton, who is a proficient in music, and 
speaks Italian in all its native purity. I did myself 
the pleasure, on the 21st of October, 1810, to com- 
memorate the natal day of Lord Eardley, by com- 
posing the music of an ode, for three voices, written 
on the occasion. It was sung by my brother, Cap- 
tain Kelly, Mr. Bellamy, and myself, at Belvidere, 
before a large company invited on the occasion, 
amongst whom were all the artillery officers from 
Woolwich : their band was also in attendance: 
The day was passed with great hilarity, our noble 
host was in high spirits ; and as the jovial glass went 
round, told a number of anecdotes ; among others, 
one that seemed to amuse his visitors very much. 



REMINISCENCES OF 

He told us that, a few days previous, he was 
walking in the Strand, going to his bankers, Messrs. 
Child, near Temple Bar, in company with a friend, 
an officer, who had served under the Duke of York, 
in Flanders. Walking along, they were followed 
by a middle-aged man, rather shabbily dressed, who, 
by his brogue, they found to be an Irishman. He 
kept close on the heels of the military gentleman, 
crying " God preserve your honour, may all bless- 
ings from above be showered down upon you ; 
there is not a day that my wife, my children, and 
myself; do not offer up our prayers, that you may 
never lose the use of your legs." 

" And pray, my good friend," said the man of 
war, " what good have I ever done you, to merit 
such unbounded gratitude ?" 

" Please your honour," said the man, " you 
saved my life, that's all." 

" In what way, my good fellow?" asked the officer. 

" Please your honour," said the Irishman, " when 
you served with the Duke of York, in Flanders, / 
was a private in your regiment ; and one hot morn- 
ing, you were so deucedly frightened, that you took 
to your heels like a lamplighter and ran away ; and 
I, because you were my own particular officer, ran 
after you ; and thereby saved my life ; for which as 
I said before, the blessings of me and mine ever 
attend you." 



MICHAEL KELLY. 263 

His Lordship gave the above anecdote with ge- 
nuine humour; and I joined with others in 
laughing at the story, but thought of the Italian 
proverb, " Se non e vero, e ben trovato." 

In the month of February, 1811, "Blue Beard" 
was produced at Covent Garden Theatre ; and Mr. 
Harris requested me to superintend the getting up 
of my music, which I did. On the first morning of 
my going to the theatre, at the back of the stage, I 
perceived a number of horses, and on inquiry, found 
they were to prance about in " Blue Beard." I 
was making my way to the green-room, when, in the 
middle of the stage, I came in contact with John 
Kemble, and pointing to the place where the horses 
stood, I thus accosted him, 

" Now are we in Ardeu !" 

His reply was, " More fools we !" We bowed to 
each other, a-la-mode de Noodle and Doodle, in 
" Tom Thumb," and passed on without further 
remark. 

This season, a musical drama, called " Gustavus 
Vasa," for which I composed the whole of the 
music, was produced. Mr. Young was the hero of 
the piece, and acted very finely. Mrs. Dickons was 
the heroine, and sang ah 1 the songs allotted to her 
with great effect. Few singers possessed so much 

i 



2G4) UEMINISCEXCES OF 

science as Mrs. Dickons ; she, at different periods, 
held the situation of first singer at Drury Lane, 
Covent Garden, the Lyceum, and Italian Opera 
House ; and wherever she was placed, was esteemed 
for her many valuable qualities. " Gustavus Vasa" 
met with approbation, and was performed a number 
of nights. 

I went to pass the summer at Wroxton Abbey, 
with my kind friend, Lord Guilford. Mr. and Mrs. 
Kemble were there on a visit, as was his Lordship's 
sister, Lady Charlotte Lindsay ; indeed, the house 
was full of visitors, amongst whom was Sir William 
Gell. At that time, Lord Guilford was preparing for 
his annual theatricals. Footers " Mayor of Garratt," 
and the " Old Maid," were to be represented ; the 
part of the " Old Maid" was admirably acted by 
Lady Charlotte ; but the favourite piece was the 
" Mayor of Garratt," which was thus cast : 

Major Sturgeon . . . The EARLOF GUILFOKD. 

Sir Jacob Jollup . . . Mr. KEMBLE. 

Jerry Sneak The Hon. BARRY ST. LEGER. 

Mr. Bruin The Hon. RICHARD ST. LEGER. 

Crispin Heel-tap . . . SIR WILLIAM GELL. 

Roger Mr. MICHAEL KELLY. 

Mrs. Bruin Mrs. KEXMBLE. 

Mrs. Sneak LADY CHARLOTTE LINDSAY. 

The noble Earl was an inimitable Major Stur- 
geon; Lady Charlotte, an excellent Mrs. Sneak; 



MICHAEL KELLY. 265 

the Honourable Barry St. Leger was extremely 
comical and effective ; and the rest of the dramatis 
personw were ably filled. But the bonne bouche 
of the whole, was the Sir Jacob Jollup of John 
Kemble, which he acted with the greatest gravity in 
a full bottomed wig. And never did he take more 
pains with Coriolanus at Covent Garden, than he 
did at Wroxton Abbey with Sir Jacob Jollup. 

An old gentleman from Banbury, who had never 
seen Kemble act before, sat next him at supper ; 
thinking to say something civil, he complimented 
him very much on his performance of Sir Jacob. 
" Sir," said he, " it was a fine piece of acting ; 
but I always understood, that your powers lay 
more in the tragic than the comic line." 

The sapient observation of this Banbury cake 
having been overheard, caused more laughter than 
even Kemble's performance. 

There were two nights' performances at Wrox- 
ton ; on the first, the theatre was open to his Lord- 
ship's tenantry, and the farmers and their daughters. 
After the performance there was a ball, where the 
servants exhibited high life below stairs, and tripped 
merrily away with their masters and mistresses ; the 
Lord had, perhaps, a kitchen-maid for his partner 
the Countess, a footman, or a groom, a melange 
which, it must be confessed, appeared highly agree- 
able to all parties ; then followed a plentiful sup- 

VOL. II. N 



266 REMINISCENCES OF 

per, at which they enjoyed themselves the remainder 
of the night. 

The second day's performance was for the nobility 
and gentry of the neighbourhood; but the first 
audience was always the best pleased, and the loud- 
est in applauding. The whole, however, was a 
scene of joy and hilarity; and his Lordship was 
delighted to witness the happiness which he diffused, 
and which was pourtrayed in every countenance. 

Lord Guilford did not confine his theatricals 
solely to Wroxton Abbey. He treated his nume- 
rous tenants in Kent, and the nobility and gentry 
within many miles of his magnificent seat at Wal- 
dershare, with similar entertainments. 

One time I was there, when O'Eeefe's " Son-in- 
Law" was acted, in a manner to reflect credit on any 
regular theatre. Major Dawkins played the part of 
" Bowkit" admirably ; indeed, he possesses a great 
deal of theatrical talent. My friend, Mr. Joseph 
Maddocks, was an excellent representative of 
" Arionelli," and " Orator Mum." I never on any 
stage witnessed a better representative in many of 
the scenes of " Falstaff." Had he made the stage 
his profession, in many characters he would have 
stood unrivalled. I have heard Mr. Sheridan say, 
that his performance of Sir Anthony Absolute was 
unique. I have seen him at the Marquis of Aber- 
corn's, at the Priory, and thought Mr. Sheridan's 






MICHAEL KELLY. 267 

opinion very just. Lord GuilforcTs " Old Cranky," 
in " The Son-in-Law," was excellent; he gave the 
song with Stentorian lungs, and true humour. The 
whole fortnight I remained there, was nothing but 
festivity. Poor Mr. William Maddocks, who was 
to have played the character of " Old Vinegar," was 
all the time laid up with the gout. But he wrote the 
following stanzas, which I set to music, and which 
were often sung in full chorus. 

SONG. 

Written by W. A. MADDOCKS, Esq. M.P., and composed by 
MICHAEL KELLY. 



I wish I had, I wish I had 

Some Muse as Clio fair, 
My voice to raise, in lasting praise. 

Of festive Waldershare; 
Here Comus and his jovial train 

Collect from day to day, 
Reluctant all to part again, 

Time only flies away. 

Chorus I wish, &c. 

II. 

Here all the laughing Hours give birth 

To something ever new, 
And Wisdom, in the mask of Mirth, 

Bids nonsense join the crew. 



268 REMINISCENCES OF 

The Muses here the buskin fit, 

The Graces dance the hay, 
Here gives the host to all, but wit, 

Eternal holiday. 

Chorus I wish, &c. 

III. 

Then sound the lay then sound the lay, 

Aloud full chorus bear, 
Commemorate this holiday, 

At festive Waldershare. 
Long may the host and hostess know 

The same delight they give, 
And may they, free from every woe, 

Long live, this life to live. 

Chorus Then sound the lay, &c. 

On the 31st of January, 1811, a musical drama, 
called " The Peasant Boy," was brought out at the 
Lyceum Theatre, for which I composed the whole 
of the music. The piece had very good success. 

In the middle of March, I composed the music 
to a ballet of Deshayes^s composition, at the Opera 
House. It was a pretty pastoral, and pleased 
much. 

On the 10th of June, 1811, an historical play, 
called " The Royal Oak," was produced at the 
Haymarket. To this drama, also, I composed the 
music. Elliston was the representative of the merry 
monarch, and it was an excellent piece of acting. 

Connected with my recollections of this play, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 269 

is an anecdote relative to my deceased friend, Lady y 
Hamilton, so characteristic of that talented, but 
unfortunate woman, and at the same time so de- 
monstrative of her warmth of feeling, that I cannot 
suffer it to pass unrecorded. 

I had composed a plaintive ballad in the second 
act, for a Miss Wheatley (formerly a pupil of Att- 
wood's), who possessed a fine deep contre alto voice : 
the poetry was descriptive of a warrior, who had 
fallen in recent battle. Upon the fifth representa- 
tion of the new play, Lady Hamilton, with a party 
of friends, occupied one of the stage-boxes, appear- 
ing all gaiety and animation. Scarcely, however, 
had this ballad commenced, when she became tre- 
mulous and agitated ; and at its conclusion, upon 
the encore being loudly demanded, she exclaimed, 
" For God's sake, remove me I cannot bear it.'' 
Her terrified friends withdrew her from the box, 
whence she was immediately conveyed home in 
a fainting condition. 

The following morning, Miss Wheatley re- 
ceived a note from her Ladyship, (to whom she 
had previously been unknown,) inviting her to her 
house, where, after complimenting her upon the 
force and feeling with which she had given the 
melody, she added, " The description brought our 
glorious Nelson with such terrible truth before my 
mind's eye, that you overwhelmed me at the mo- 



270 REMINISCENCES OF 

ment, but now I feel as if I could listen to you in 
that air for ever." She prevailed upon her visitor 
to repeat the ballad no less than four times at the 
piano-forte, " as if increase of appetite grew by what 
it fed upon." 

Eventually, so powerful became this senti- 
ment, that she induced Miss Wheatley to retire 
from the stage altogether, and accept, under her 
roof, the post of musical governess to the young 
Horatia Nelson, who had been confided to her 
Ladyship's guardianship. Not a day afterwards 
elapsed, but the favourite song was put in requisi- 
tion. I published it under the title of " Rest, 
warrior, rest." It was generally esteemed one of my 
happiest efforts ; and at the present day is perpe- 
tually performed at concerts and music-meetings, 
by that delightful singer, the charming Miss M. 
Tree, who has given it a renewed fashion and zest. 

On the 1st of August, Mr. M. G. Lewis re- 
wrote his "Wood Daemon;" he only made use 
of the subject several new characters were intro- 
duced ; nothing could be more effective. The piece 
was then called, " One o'Clock." In conjunction 
with M. P. King, I composed the music. It was 
got up with great splendour, and had a considerable 
run. 

August 1811, Signora Bertinotti, Naldi, Signer 
Cavini, a very sweet tenor singer, aftd his wife, a very 



MICHAEL KELLY. 271 

pretty singer, and beautiful woman, Madame Naldi, 
Miss Naldi, and myself, were engaged by Mr. Jones 
to perform two Italian operas at the Dublin Theatre. 
One of them was " II Furbo contro il Furbo ;" the 
other, Mozart's " Cos! fan tutte." Signora Berti- 
notti, who was one of the most popular prima 
donnas on the Italian stage, pleased very much ; 
but the houses not answering the expectations either 
of ourselves or Mr. Jones, we performed very few 
nights, and the party set off, via Belfast, for Scot- 
land, to appear under the management of Corri, 
at Edinburgh ; afterwards to go back to Liverpool for 
a few nights, and then return to London. It was 
proposed to me to accompany them, but I declined. 
On the 5th of September, 1811, I made my last 
appearance on any stage, on the stage where I had 
made my first appearance, when a boy, in 1779- 
Mr. Bartlett Cooke accompanied me on the flute 
and hautboy, when I acted first in 1779, and when 
I last performed in 1811, both in my native city. 

When I got to Shrewsbury, on my way from 
Holyhead to London, while supper was getting 
ready, I took up a London newspaper, and the first 
thing I saw struck me with astonishment ; I read, 
in the Gazette, these portentous words " Bankrupt, 
Michael Kelly, of Pali-Mall, music-seller,'" an 
announcement so unexpected, confounded me. I 
instantly wrote to my principal man of business, 



272 REMINISCENCES OF 

who had the management of all my money trans- 
actions, (his name I shall not mention, for the sake 
of his family, part of which I know to be very 
respectable,) to know by whom the docket was struck. 
Unfortunately for me, I had reposed the greatest 
confidence in him, and would have trusted my life, 
as well as my property, in his hands. He was re- 
commended to me by a particular friend, and came 
into my employ a poor man, but he left it amply 
stocked with every thing ; and, sans ceremonie, took 
himself abroad. 

I heard nothing more of him, until I was told 
that, from the badness of the climate to which he 
went, he was seized with illness, and there died. 

When I got to town, I found the docket had 
been struck against me by a particular friend of his, 
on account of a dishonoured bill. It was certainly 
a planned thing : my solicitor, looking into my 
affairs (which I unluckily did not), found I was 
plunged, by my fidus Achates, deeper in the mire 
than I could possibly have imagined ; and therefore 
advised me, though my property might have paid 
all demands three times over, and though I might 
have superseded the commission, to let thebankruptcy 
take its course, and so I did, and all the pro- 
perty in my saloon was disposed of, for one-tenth 
of its value. 

To be a professional man, and a trader at the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 273 

same time, is, I believe, impossible; but this I 
found out too late ; for if a man be fond of his pro- 
fession, it must, and ought to engross all his time 
and thoughts ; and, therefore, he is constantly liable 
to be cheated by his subordinates. To a man occu- 
pied in the service of the public, his mind fully 
occupied with the honourable ambition of standing 
well in their opinion, it is perfectly immaterial at 
the time, whether meat be four-pence or a shilling a 
pound, and so on in all other things ; and from want 
of looking into his affairs, which prudence, not 
nearly allied to genius, requires him to do, he gets 
involved, and sinks deeper and deeper until he is 
gone past recovery, while those about him are 
revelling and fattening upon his credulity and inat- 
tention. 

Locke says, in his " Conduct of the Human Un- 
derstanding," that " let a man be much engaged 
in the contemplation of any one sort of knowledge, 
and that alone becomes every thing to him ;" and 
from experience, in my own humble way, I found 
the philosopher's remark too true. It was, however, 
rather an odd coincidence, that the docket of my 
unconscious insolvency should have been struck 
against me, in London, on the 6th of September, 
1811, the very day upon which I made my last 
appearance upon any stage, in Dublin. 

The Drury Lane company ceased performing a 



. 



274 REMINISCENCES OF 

the Lyceum the 18th June, 1812, with the play of 
" John Bull," for the benefit of the British prisoners 
in France. On the 29th of the same month, that 
luminary of the British stage, Mrs. Siddons, took 
leave of the public at Covent Garden Theatre. I 
was determined to see her, and got into the orchestra. 
The play was " Macbeth ;" she acted Lady Mac- 
beth divinely, and looked as beautiful as ever : the 
house was crowded to excess. After her sleeping 
scene was concluded, the audience unanimously 
called for the curtain to drop, and would not allow 
the play to finish ; a marked and just compliment to 
the most splendid actress the British stage ever pos- 
sessed ; and whose private character has little less 
contributed to the exaltation of the profession which 
she adorned, than the unrivalled greatness of her 
public talents. 

On the 10th of October, 1812, New Drury Lane 
Theatre, built by Mr. Wyatt, one of the sons of the 
late well-known architect, opened with " Hamlet," 
under the immediate direction of the Honourable 
Thomas Brande, M.P. (now LordDacre,) Mr. Ca- 
vendish Bradshaw, the Honourable Douglas Kin- 
naird, Samuel Whitbread, Esq. William Adam, 
Esq. M.P. Alderman Coombe, M.P. Mr. Peter 
Moore, Richard Sharpe, Esq. M.P. Richard Wil- 
son, Esq. Lord Holland, Captain Bennett, Launcelot 
Holland, Esq. Sir Robert Barclay, Bart. George 



MICHAEL KELLY. 275 

Templar, Esq. Thomas Hope, Esq. John Dent, Esq. 
M.P. the Right Honourable John Mac Mahon, 
M.P. Mr. Richard Ironmonger, Mr. Ward, Mr. 
Crawford, and George William Leeds, Esq. The 
novelty of the house drew full audiences during the 
season, under the management of Mr. Arnold. 

On the 25th November, 1813, was produced at 
Drury Lane, a musical piece, written by Mr. 
Arnold, called " Illusion. 1 ' The subject was taken 
from the popular tale of " Nourjahad," written by 
Mr. Sheridan's mother, the authoress of " Sidney 
Biddulph," &c. I composed the music; it was 
received with great applause. 

On Wednesday, 1st December, 1813, an Ode 
was performed at Freemasons' 1 Hall, for the Instal- 
lation of His Royal Highness the Duke of Kent 
and Strathern, as Grand Master of Masons in 
England, according to the old institution. The 
Ode recited by brother Pope ; the music composed 
by brother Kelly. The military band of His Royal 
Highness the Duke of Kent, who were Masons, 
attended ; together with several eminent profes- 
sional singers ; and the whole formed a grand coup- 
cTceil. Brother Bellamy sang the following song 
with great animation, and it was received with 
unanimous applause : 



276 REMINISCENCES OF 



SONG. 

" Mountains may fall, and rocks decay, 
And isle on isle be swept away, 

But Masonry's primeval truth, 
Unbroke by force, unchanged by time, 
Shall bloom in renovated youth, 
And energy sublime." 

The following duet met with the same meal 
of approbation : 

" For see ! from Heaven the peaceful dove 

With olive branch descend ; 
Augustus shall with Edward join, 

All rivalry to end ; 
And taught by their fraternal love, 

Our arms, our hearts shall intertwine. 
_. 
The union to approve, 

" Then Edward and Augustus hail ! 
For now beneath the Brunswick line, 

One system shall prevail ; 
O'er all the earth, with truths divine, 
Shall Masonry extend its sway, 
Till time itself shall pass away 
In unity to shine." 

FULL CHORUS. 

' Then, brothers, hail the kind decree 
That gave them both to Masonry." 



MIt'.HAEL KELLY. 277 

The 23rd January, 1818, Mr. Coleridge pro- 
duced, at Drury Lane, his tragedy entitled 
" Remorse.' 1 There were some musical situations 
in the play which I had to compose. The poetry 
of the incantation was highly animating; it was 
sung by Mrs. Bland, with all the refreshing purity 
of her unsophisticated style, and with that chaste 
expression and tenderness of feeling which speak 
at once as it were to the heart. The chorus of 
boatmen chaunting on the water under the convent 
walls, and the distant peal of the organ, accom- 
panying the monks while singing within the con- 
vent chapel, seemed to overcome and soothe the 
audience; a thrilling sensation appeared to per- 
vade the great mass of congregated humanity, and, 
during its performance, it was listened to with un- 
divided attention, as if the minds and hearts of all 
were rivetted and enthralled by the combination 
presented to their notice; and at the conclusion 
the applause was loud and protracted. 

I was fortunate enough to hear, from the highly- 
talented author of the play, that my music was 
every thing he could have wished. I felt this as 
a high compliment from Mr. Coleridge ; for I un- 
derstood, when he was in Sicily, and other parts of 
Italy, he had this " Miserere, Domine" set to music 
by different Italian composers, none of whom satis- 
fied him by giving his poetry the musical expression 
which he desired. 



278 REMINISCENCES OF 

On the 16th June, 1813, I took my annual 
benefit at Drury Lane, and brought out the sequel 
to the " Beggar's Opera" (Ga/s " Polly,") altered 
by Mr. Horace Smith, one of the authors of " The 
Rejected Addresses ;" but the subject was a bad 
one. I composed new music to it, but it did not 
succeed, and was withdrawn. 

There was, about this time, a law-suit to come 
on, in Dublin, in which I was subpoenaed, against 
a Mr. Hime, a music-seller in Dublin, who had 
pirated and published a number of my compo- 
sitions. I was labouring under severe illness at 
the time, and was attended daily by my worthy 
friend, Dr. Hooper; however, I had promised to 
go, let the consequence be what it might. On 
the 13th July, I left Tavistock Row for Dublin, 
in a travelling-carriage, in company with Mrs. 
Horrebow, Mr. Addison, and Henry Horrebow. 

I travelled slowly, and by short stages, (still 
being very ill,) and on the seventh day, reached 
Holyhead, and put up at the Stanley Arms, kept 
by Mr. Spenser, from whom, and his family, I 
received the greatest possible attention. I re- 
mained nine weeks in his house, as I was unable 
to cross the sea, I was told, without the risk of 
my life. 

While I was there, a little fellow, a great ally 
of mine, called upon me every morning. In his 
person he verified the old adage, that every eye 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

forms its own beauty. This said droll little fellow, 
surnamed, by the inhabitants of Holyhead, " Billy- 
in-the-bowl," though a dwarf, having lost both his 
legs, or rather, never having had any, went crawling 
about, literally seated in a bowl-dish ; yet, in spite 
of his deformities, he captivated the heart of a 
beautiful Welch girl, who would have him for 
better for worse. Her father, a wealthy farmer, 
offered to give her a good fortune, and a young 
and handsome man for her husband ; but no ! 
she would have Billy-in-the-bowl. She bore him 
two fine boys, and is, I am told, even now, very 
jealous of him. 

On the 25th of August, being somewhat re- 
stored to health, though still afflicted with the 
gout, and unable to venture on a sea voyage, I 
quitted Holyhead for the Earl of Guilford's seat, 
Wroxton Abbey. 

We crossed Bangor Ferry, and I sent Henry 
Horrebow on to Jackson's, to get horses; those 
which brought us from Gwyndee we left on the 
other side of the ferry. I was yet on the beach 
alone, in the carriage, unable to move, owing to 
my gout. The tide was coming in rapidly ; no 
appearance of a human being to extricate me 
from what, I thought, a perilous situation ; for 
every moment I expected the carriage would be 
afloat, and carried down the stream. At length, 



280 EEMINISCEXCES OF 

by the arrival of horses, I was relieved from my 
apprehensions, and proceeded on my way to Auber, 
about eight miles from Bangor, where I dined and 
slept at the Bull, a charming Welch inn the 
accommodation excellent, and the situation tran- 
quil and picturesque. 

The road from Auber to Conway Ferry is 
beautiful. The view of the sea, on one side, 
and a highly-cultivated country on the other, 
with the lofty mountain of Penman Maur, tow- 
ering to the skies, form indeed a splendid pros- 
pect; and to add to the earthly beauties round 
me, the morning was serene, with a true Neapo- 
litan sky. 

I crossed the ferry in the carriage; and when 
passing Conway Castle, the place where (in the 
" Castle Spectre,") it was supposed, " Megin ho, 
Megin he," was sung, it gave me great delight 
to recal the melody, nor could I resist singing it 
all through ; while the boatmen and passengers, 
who of course did not participate in the feelings 
by which I was actuated, seemed much asto- 
nished, and, by their silence, not ill pleased at 
the animated manner in which I was singing. 

In getting near the shore, I observed a picturesque 
castle, about half a mile from the place at which we 
were to land ; I inquired of one of the boatmen, to 
whom it belonged ; and at that moment, a pleasure 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



281 



boat being alongside of the ferry boat, a gentleman 
who was in it, dressed like a sailor, jumped up, 
and addressing me, said, " That castle belongs to 
Lord Kirkwall, who is expected there to-morrow ; 
and I am sure his Lordship will be most happy to 
see Mr. Kelly, as long as he can make it convenient 
to remain with him. In the mean time, Mr. Kelly, 
if you will do me the favour to come into my boat, 
and join our fishing-party, I shall be happy to give 
you a bed at my house, and a hearty welcome, 
and in the morning will accompany you to Lord 
KirkwalPs." 

I returned the gentleman my acknowledgments 
for his politeness, but excused myself, as I was in a 
great hurry to continue my journey on pressing 
business. 

On inquiring of the boatmen who the gentleman 
was, they told me it was Colonel Lloyd, who had a 
beautiful house near the ferry. 

On the 28th of August I got to Warwick, dined 
and slept at the Warwick Arms, and the next day 
reached Wrox ton Abbey to dinner, where I was 
received by the noble host and hostess with their 
usual kindness and attention. On the 3rd of Sep- 
tember, I went with Lord Guilford to Banbury, 
where, as Lord High Steward, he gave a dinner to 
the mayor and aldermen, with whom he was won- 
derfully popular. I remained at Wroxton till the 
end of September. 



282 REMINISCENCES OF 

The day before I took my departure, my ever- 
kind patron said to me, " My dear Mic, do not be 
in such a hurry to leave us ; stay here a fortnight 
longer ; stay a month ; or (at the same time shaking 
me by the hand), stay here for ever. When we 
were rifling the other day near the entrance of the 
park, you were admiring a spot of ground there, 
and saying, how happy you should be to spend the 
remainder of your days there ; and so you shall, if 
you keep in the same mind. You have no family ; I 
will build you a cottage on that very spot, where 
you shall not have the trouble of going up and 
down stairs ; you shall have a garden, and a pad- 
dock for a poney, and a cow attached to it; 
remember this is a serious promise ; and, whenever 
you quit public life, I will fulfil it: we will be 
neighbours, Mic ; my wife shall sing with you, my 
chaplain shall drink with you, and I will talk 
with you.' 1 

This liberal offer, and the kind-hearted manner 
in which it was made, deeply affected me. But 
death deprived me of my patron and friend. He 
went to Italy, where he died on the 28th of January, 
1817, in the fifty-fifth year of his age, esteemed 
and regretted by all who had the happiness of being 
acquainted with the qualities of his head and heart. 
His amiable Countess did not long survive his 
lamented loss. 

On the 26th of January, 1814, 1 had the pleasure 



MICHAEL KELLY. 283 

to witness the first appearance of Mr. Kean, as 
Shylock, in " The Merchant of Venice," and was 
delighted with the performance of my original Cu- 
pid in " Cymon." There was not a good house, 
but the audience gave him that applause, on his 
entree, which they are always liberal enough to 
bestow on a first appearance ; but during the prin- 
cipal part of his scenes in the play, and at his exit, 
the applause lasted for some moments. 

It is pretty generally known, that Mr. Whitbread 
received a letter from the Rev. Dr. Drury, recom- 
mending Mr. Kean in such strong terms to Drury 
Lane Theatre, that Mr. Whitbread requested Mr. 
Arnold to go to Dorchester (I think) to see, and 
engage him for Drury Lane : Mr. Arnold dined 
with me on the very day he set off* on his mission. 
He saw Mr. Kean in a principal part in a play, and 
after it, as Harlequin, in a pantomime : in the lat- / 

ter character, he is universally allowed to have no 
competitor. Mr. Arnold, with a discerning eye, 
saw his merit, and offered him terms for Drury 
Lane, which he could not accept; as a few days 
previous to Mr. Arnold's seeing him, he had en- 
gaged himself to the manager of the Olympic 
Theatre, in Wych Street, as principal Harlequin, y 

and to superintend the getting up of the pantomimes, 
for which he was to receive two or three pounds per 
week. Mr. Arnold and the Drury Lane Commit- 



REMINISCENCES OF 

tee made interest with the proprietor of the Olympic, 
to let Kean off his engagement, which he liberally 
consented to do. 

I was present at his first appearance in " Richard 
the Third ;" there was a crowded house, and I be- 
lieve that his acting that part drew more money to the 
treasury than any other actor's ever did. I wrote 
to him, to know if he had ever been in Ireland ; in 
his reply he informed me he had been to Waterford, 
but never to Dublin. I wrote to my friend Jones, 
recommending him strongly to make him the best 
offer his theatre could afford, as I was sure he would 
draw him full houses every night. Mr. Jones wrote 
to me immediately, saying, he would give him simi- 
lar terms to those which Mrs. Siddons and Mr. 
Kemble had. Kean accepted them, and set off for 
Dublin, accompanied by my friend, Pope, who was 
also instrumental in procuring him the engagement. 
He drew a crowded audience every time he acted : 
Pope performed with him in all his plays, and for 
his reward had a good house at his benefit. 

In my humble opinion, Kean's acting in the third 
act of " Othello, 1 ' is his best performance. The 
first night he acted it at Drury Lane, I sat in my 
seat in the orchestra, which was appropriated to me, 
as Director of the Music; and next to me was Lord 
Byron, who said, " Mr. Kelly, depend upon it, this 
is a man of genius," 



MICHAEL KELLY. 285 

Mr. Sheridan, though very curious to see him, 
would not go to the theatre ; having made a vow, 
in consequence of some offence he had received from 
the Committee of Management, never to enter its 
walls. Mrs. Sheridan, who at this time was very ill, 
and confined for many weeks, had also a great curio- 
sity to see Mr. Kean perform the part of u Othello ;" 
but as she could not venture to the theatre, Mr. 
Sheridan requested Kean to come to his house, and 
read the play ; which he did. 

The following day I saw Sheridan, and asked his 
opinion of Kean ; he told me he was very much 
pleased with him that he had once studied the part 
of Othello himself, to act at Sir Watkin William 
Wynnes private theatre, in Wales ; and that Keaif s 
conception of Othello was the precise counterpart 
of his own. This, which, as it was intended, no 
doubt, for a compliment, would have sounded like 
vanity in any body else, in a man of Mr. Sheridan's 
acknowledged ability, must have been highly flat- 
tering to Mr. Kean. I have always considered Mr. 
Kean an actor of great genius ; but I feel much 
pleasure in mentioning a trait in his private charac- 
ter, which came under my own cognizance. There 
was a Mr. Conyngham, a native of Ireland, who, 
in former days, I remember a favourite with the 
Irish audience, and for many years a member of the 



286 REMINISCENCES OF 

Bath company. He was acting at Brighton his 
circumstances were not the most flourishing, and a 
good benefit would, he said, release him from all his 
embarrassments. A brother actor advised him to 
write to Mr. Kean ; for if he would come and act 
for his benefit, he might be assured of an over- 
flowing house. 

" My good fellow," replied Conyngham, " I 
should be afraid to make so ' bold a request. It is 
true, at one time, when we were acting together, 
we were very intimate, and he was a good-natured 
fellow; but Ned Kean, then the strolling-player, 
and Mr. Kean, the prop of Drury Lane Theatre, 
are not one and the same person." 

Conyngham, however, was persuaded to write to 
Kean, and received the following letter in reply, 
which I have read. 

" DEAR TOM, 

<( I am sorry that you are not as comfortable in life as I wish 
you ; put me up for any of my plays next Thursday, and I shall 
be most happy to act for your benefit. In the mean time, accept 
the enclosed trifle to make the pot boil." 

The enclosure was a ten-pound note. 

On the Thursday he arrived at Brighton, and his 
performance drew poor Conyngham an overflowing 
audience. But nothing could induce him to accept 
one sixpence for his travelling or other incidental 



MICHAEL KELLY. 287 

expenses : to descant on the kindness of such an 
action is useless it speaks for itself. 

On the 16th of June, Drury Lane was honoured 
with the presence of the Emperor of Russia and 
King of Prussia ; and, on the 17th, they conferred 
the same honour on Covent Garden Theatre. Their 
reception by the audience was enthusiastic. 

This season, my worthy friends, John Bannister, 
Mr. Heath, the eminent engraver, and Mr. Nield, 
the solicitor, made a party to go to Paris. I agreed 
to accompany them ; and took Henry Horrebow, 
then quite a boy, with us. None of the party, with 
the exception of myself, could speak French. How- 
ever, we had a delightful journey. We stopped a 
day and a half at Calais, where I hired an excellent 
roomy post-coach, with three horses ; and made an 
agreement, that we should be set down on the fourth 
day at Paris, or be on the road eight days at our 
option ; the latter seemed most agreeable to my 
party, as they wished to see every thing worth look- 
ing at on the road, and none of us were pressed for 
time. 

Our coachman, with whom I made the agreement, 
was very communicative. One part of the road, 
between Calais and Boulogne, was rather bad. Our 
coachman was walking by the side of the coach, and 
1 was singing the romance, in " Richard Coeur de 
Lion." " Bravo ! bravo !" exclaimed coachee ; sur 



288 REMINISCENCES OF 

mon honneur, vous chantez tres-Uen and sing as 
if you knew music too. Allans, done venire bleu 
let you and I sing a duet." 

" With all my soul," said I. 

He asked me if I knew the duet in the Opera of 
Nina." I told him I did. 

" Allans done, commences? said he ; and to it 
we went, pell-mell he had a strong bass voice, and 
sang perfectly in tune. After the duet, he sang the 
songs of " O, Richard ! O, mon Roi !" and the chan- 
son, " Je suis Lindor," with excellent expression, 
and much to our astonishment. 

We arrived at Boulogne-sur-mer, and alighted at 
Mrs. Parker's Hotel, where we had an excellent 
dinner, and good beds ; and set off early the next 
morning for Montreuil. We here lost our chaunting 
guide, which I at first regretted ; his successor was 
quite a young man, very good-natured, and of en- 
gaging manners ; so much so, that we christened 
him Le Fevre. While we were at breakfast, I ex- 
pressed my surprise to Le Fevre, at hearing the 
coachman, who drove us from Calais to Boulogne 
sing so well. " Sir," said he, " that gentleman is 
considered, amongst us, a perfectly good musician. 
A few years back, he was a captain in the army, 
but very dissipated and wild in short, there was 
no end to his extravagance. His father left him a 
pretty patrimony, which he soon got rid of ; and 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 289 

for reasons, with which I am not acquainted, he 
was obliged to give up his commission, and leave the 
army, and now gains his living by driving a coach 
between Calais and Boulogne ; but let him only have 
his music, his brandy, and his pipe, he will sing, 
drink, and smoke day and night, and seems the 
happiest man in all France. 1 " 

At that time, recent as is the date of the occur- 
rence, reverses like these were not so common in 
England as they are now ; at present, extravagance 
in time of war, and half-pay in time of peace, have 
driven men to drive coaches, who had every just 
expectation at one time of keeping them ; but, " all 
the world's a stage," and it is not at all anomalous, 
to find some obliged to take up with the commonest 
fare ; nor is any employment, for the support of a 
family, to be considered dishonourable, which is 
not dishonest. 

At Montreuil, we went to the hotel kept by the 
two Brothers with enormous Cocked Hats; the 
eldest, near ninety years of age, in full possession 
of all his faculties, was as garrulous as need be. 
He seemed very proud of having known Sterne, / 

with whom, he told us, he had conversed, and 
whom he remembered perfectly. 

I. would advise those who are fond of good-living, 
and particularly of woodcock- pies, to dine at Mon- 

VOL. ir. o 





290 REMINISCENCES OF 

treuil, the younger Cocked Hat is esteemed a 
perfect cordon bleu in cookery. 

We slept at Abbeville, at the Hotel de TEurope, 
an excellent house. We took luncheon at'Beau- 
vais, where it was market-day ; and the street, in 
which our inn was situated, was crowded with 
market-people, listening to a French ballad-singer, 
roaring away on the steps of the coffee-house, op- 
posite to our inn. I was in high spirits, and deter- 
mined to rival the said Stentorian ballad-singer ; so I 
mounted the steps, and sang a strophe of a French 
song. The crowd gave me great applause, and loud 
cheering ; so much indeed, that the mistress of the 
coffee-house declared, that if I would remain at 
Beauvais, and sing to the frequenters of her coffee- 
room, she would board and lodge me, free of ex- 
pense. 

After loitering on the road for six days, on the 
seventh (Sunday) we arrived at Paris, where lodg- 
ings had been taken for us by the elder Vestris, 
close to the Boulevard du Temple, which were very 
comfortable. We passed a delightful time while we 
remained at Paris. 

We went one evening to the Theatre Vaudeville, 
and saw the first representation of " La Route & 
Paris." Joly, the favourite actor, played several 
characters in different disguises. His personification 



MICHAEL KELLY. 291 

f an English gouty Lord, was perfect. Bannister 
thought him excellent. Madame Belmont, the ori- 
ginal Fanchon, belonged to this theatre ; and is an 
excellent actress, and a fine woman. We also wit- 
nessed the first representation of the " Two Boxers," 
at the Theatre des Varietes, performed by those 
two excellent comic actors, Brunet and Potier. In 
the line of simple characters, there are no actors 
like them, they are real comedians, without buf- 
foonery or grimace. 

We accompanied Mr. Heath on a visit to the late 
Monsieur Denon, the once favourite of Buonaparte. 
He resided in a fine house upon the Quai Voltaire, 
furnished in a style of the greatest magnificence. His 
oictures, prints, cameos, intaglios, statues, &c. were 
of the first description. Indeed, when accompany- 
ing Buonaparte in Egypt, Italy, &c. he had the 
picking and choosing of the best ; and, to do him 
justice, he did not appear to have forgotten number 
one. 

He received us with the greatest politeness, in- 
quired most affectionately after Mr. Heath's son, 
with whom he was very well acquainted ; and spoke 
with the most unqualified praise of his talents as an 
artist, and the amiability of his character as a private 
individual. 

Denon's countenance was replete with intelligence 
and genius.* I introduced Bannister to him, as one 



REMINISCENCES OF 

of our first-rate actors : he said, of that he had no 
doubt, as Mr. Bannister had a fine stage face, and 
the eye of a good comedian. He gave us recom- 
mendations, for the purpose of viewing all the 
public institutes, colleges, mint, &c. in Paris, which 
were of great service to us, as they gave us an entree 
to all those places. We were daily visitors at the 
Louvre, and were, of course, highly delighted with 
the works there. Mr. Glover, the English artist, 
had permission to copy some pictures, and was 
every day to be seen at work in the gallery. I 
met there, one morning, my countryman, of whom 
I have before spoken, Mr. Curran. I asked his 
opinion of Paris; he replied, that he thought it 
u mixture of dirt and magnificence that some of 
their buildings were very superb, but when once 
seen, that was sufficient for him ; for his own part, 
he had not the smallest wish to encore a building. 

o 

My friend, Madame Grassini, was living in the 
Rue d'Anjou. I dined with her, in company with 
the celebrated composer Paer, an excellent and jolly 
fellow. I have seen him take his bottle of cham- 
pagne, and two of burgundy ; after coffee, two or 
three glasses of brandy, by way of chasse, quit the 
table as sober as a judge, and sit down to the piano- 
forte, on which instrument he excelled ; he also sang 
with infinite grace and expression. 

In the evening, Madame Grassini had a musical 



MICHAEL KELLY. 293 

party, at which I was introduced to Mr. and Mrs. 
Crawford, who, extraordinary to say, had, during 
the whole period of the Revolution, remained at 
their house in the Rue (TAnjou, unmolested by any 
of the different ruling powers. Grassini, at this 
period, renewed her engagement for the ensuing 
season, at the Opera House, with Mr. Waters. 

My party were very much struck with the water- 
works of Marly, the magnificence of Versailles, the 
Petite Trianon, JMalmaison, and St. Cloud ; the 
latter was my favourite. We were shewn every 
thing worth seeing, and, amongst other curiosities, 
the chair in which Buonaparte used to sit when he 
held a council. The person who explained every 
thing to us, made us examine the number of notches 
made in it by Buonaparte, who, while giving au- 
dience, or transacting business, had a habit of holding 
a penknife in his hand, and was continually making 
cuts in the chair, more or less, as he felt pleased, or 
otherwise. It was said, that when in the council 
chamber, he would never sit in any other chair. 
Our cicerone informed us, that he was seated in it 
when he gave an audience to the Russian ambas- 
sador; and on giving him a paper, said ''Read, 
sign, and be off." That was said to be the only 
conversation which passed between them ; and from 
the tyrant's genuine character, it seems very pro- 



BEMINISCENCES OF 

bable to have been so. The ambassador made no 
reply, and retired. 

The day after our return from St. Cloud, we 
went to the fair of Vincennes, which was crowded 
with booths, mountebanks, puppet-shows, &c. From 
this merry scene we turned to the mournful task 
of viewing the castle of Vincennes ; and the spot 
where the ill-fated Duke d'Enghien was, by the 
sanguinary orders of Buonaparte, barbarously mur- 
dered. 

Bannister and Heath were obliged to return to 
England, the former to fulfil his engagements* 
and the latter upon business. The last day they 
remained in Paris, we devoted to see Montmartre ; 
the view of Paris, from the summit of which, is very 
magnificent. 

I was one evening in company, at Madame Gras- 
sini's, with a Parisian lady, who had just returned 
from London, where she had been passing the 
winter. I asked her how she liked that city? 
" To say the truth," she replied, " I like two things 
in London passing well ; par exemple, the pave- 
ment of your streets, and the mock turtle of your 
kitchens ; in every thing else, Paris is far preferable. 
I stopped some days longer in England than I at 
first intended, out of curiosity to see the sun ; but 
the whole time I was there, he never was coinpla:- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 295 

sant enough to make his appearance." And yet I 
was informed this lady was a person of some consi- 
deration in Paris, and reckoned mighty clever. 

My friends took their departure for Rouen, in 
their way to Dieppe. I had some business to de- 
tain me in Paris a week longer, and then purposed 
following them ; but on the eve of my leaving Paris, 
I was seized with the gout, and kept my bed for 
ten days. When I was able to move, I hired a 
cabriolet, and with Henry Horrebow, set off post 
for Rouen. The first day I was in such pain I 
could not get farther than Pontoise, a town famous 
for the excellence of its veal. The next day I 
reached Rouen, and put up at the Hotel de France, 
an excellent house. The peasants of Normandy 
seemed to enjoy themselves ; for, in every village 
through which I passed, they were .either dancing 
or playing at various games. I got to a late dinner 
at Dieppe, and truly glad I was, as my gout was 
increasing. My hotel on the quay was lively enough ; 
I saw every thing passing, and remained there five 
days, waiting for a fair wind for Brighton ; and, what 
was rather strange to meet with in France, I got 
some of the finest old port wine I ever tasted. 

There were three professors of music from Lon- 
don, of the name of Hams, waiting at Dieppe, as 
well as myself, for a fair wind, who did me the 
favour every evening to come and sit with me, and 



296 REMINISCENCES OF 

were very agreeable company. On the fifth even- 
ing, the wind being fair, the Neptune packet was to 
sail for Brighton. Though unable to move hand 
or foot, I was determined to go in it; and was 
carried, in gi~at torture, by four seamen, on board, 
and packed into my birth. If to have a seven- 
teen hours' rough passage, a violent sea sickness, 
with a twinging fit of the gout at the same time, be 
not enough to put a poor fellow's patience to the 
proof, I know not what is. I sent Henry with the 
passengers on shore in the first boat to procure a 
carriage, as I could not walk ; and remained on 
board the packet until he returned with a sedaii- 
chair for me on the beach. I was lifted from the 
packet into the boat ; and luckily Mr. Addison, 
who was walking on the beach at the time, ran to 
the Old Ship, and secured me accommodations there. 
I got better every hour; and the kind attention 
paid me by Mr. Shugard, the landlord, Mrs. Shu- 
gard, and all their family, I shall always be* happy 
to acknowledge. 

I found, at Brighton, my friends Philips, Mrs. 
Philips, Miss Johnstone (now Mrs. Wallack), 
Messrs. Maddocks, Charles Mathews, Mrs. Ma- 
thews, Mr. and Mrs. Poole, and some Irish friends, 
all forming a party at a boarding-house on the 
J i and Parade. They were like one family; the 
mistress of the house, a Mrs. White, kept an excel- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



lent -and plentiful table. Mathews was in excellent 
spirits, and kept every one alive : there was only 
one damper, in the shape of an old East Indian 
officer, just returned from Calcutta, who was most 
unbending, and did not in the least relish their 
innocent mirth, for the slightest noise brought on 
a fit of bile ; so that for fear of being disturbed at 
night, he never went to his bed until every inmate, 
servants and all, were in theirs. 

His bed-chamber adjoined the dining parlour : 
my friends were kind enough to wish me to join 
their social party, but that was not feasible, as there 
was no bed-room in the house unoccupied ; how- 
ever, they determined among themselves to have me 
in, and the Nabob out ; for which purpose, at the 
solemn hour of midnight, when all the house were 
thought to be at rest, Mathews left his room, and 
on the stair-case began howling and barking in 
different tones, in imitation of a kennel of hounds, 
and squalling and mewing with all his might, like a 
dozen of wild cats. The Nabob was terrified, and 
declared the next morning at breakfast, that he 
would not pass such another miserable night to be 
made Commander-in-Chief. The second night he 
had another dose, if possible, more potent than the 
first. The scheme succeeded; for the following 
morning the restless Nabob requested Mrs. White 
to let him give up his bed-room in the house, and 
o 5 



298 REMINISCENCES OF 

remain with her as a boarder only. He took a 
lodging in the next street, and I became possessed 
of his bed-chamber. He soon found out the cause 
of the noises, which, he said, at first he implicitly 
believed came from a legion of demons. I thought 
myself extremely fortunate in becoming his locum 
tenenSy a situation which I could not have attained 
but for the excellent imitations of my friend Mathews, 
combined with the good wishes of my other friends, 
who were inmates of the house. 

At the theatre at Brighton, Mr. Harley (then a 
provincial performer in Mr. Trotter's company) was 
acting. I went to see him in " Bombastes Furioso," 
in which he introduced a song of his own writing to 
Braham's air, " Said a smile to a tear/ 1 from the 
opera of " False Alarms." His acting and singing 
pleased me so much, that I wrote the next day to 
Mr. Arnold, recommending him as a most promising 
subject, more particularly for his own theatre, the 
English Opera House; and strenuously advised 
him to engage Harley without delay. By return of 
post, I received Mr. Arnold's reply, enclosing his 
proposals for an engagement, which Mr. Harley ac- 
cepted. The rapid strides he has made, and is still 
making, in the good opinion of the public, and his 
employers, prove that my early opinion of his merits 
was not without foundation ; and I am happy to 
have been, in some degree, instrumental in intro- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 299 

ducing so useful an actor, and worthy a young man, 
to the London stage. He made his first appearance 
in London, at the English Opera House, on the 
15th of July, 1815, in the part of Marcelli, in the 
opera of " The Devil's Bridge." 

I remained at Brighton, until summoned by Mr. 
Arnold to Drury Lane, to get up and superintend 
the music in Macbeth, which was to be produced 
with uncommon splendour for Mr. Kean. I had 
all the principal vocal performers in the choruses ; 
who all, as well as a numerous list of choral singers, 
both male and female, took infinite pains to execute 
the charming productions in a style unequalled in 
my remembrance; and the enthusiastic applause 
which the audience gave them, was commensurate 
with their merits. It was a rare and novel sight, to 
see so great a body of English chorus singers on the 
stage, full of appropriate and animated action. Yet 
in the instance I speak of, such things were; I 
cannot say such things are, they find it, perhaps, 
too troublesome. 

I went to see the first appearance of my country- 
woman, Miss O'Neil, who made her entree at Covent 
Garden Theatre, on the 6th of October, 1814; and 
had the satisfaction of finding her received by the 
audience with the admiration and applause which 
she ever afterwards deservedly enjoyed until her 
retirement from the stage, on her marriage. 

Though I had not the pleasure of being personally 



300 REMINISCENCES OF 

acquainted with Miss O'Neil, I felt a great interest 
for her success. The following anecdote, I believe 
very little known in the theatrical world, I had 
from Mr. Jones, the patentee of Crow-street Thea- 
tre. Miss Walstein, who was the heroine of the 
Dublin stage, and a great and deserved favourite, 
was to open the theatre, in the character of Juliet. 
Mr. Jones received an intimation from MissWalstein, 
that withe Ait a certain increase of salary, and other 
privileges, she would not come to the house. Mr. 
Jones had arrived at the determination to shut up 
his theatre, sconer than submit to what he thought 
an unwarrantable demand; when Mac Nally, the 
box-keeper, who had been the bearer of Miss 
Walstein's message, told Mr. Jones, " that it would 
be a pity to close the house, and that there was a 
remedy, if Mr. Jones chose to avail himself of it." 

" The girl, Sir," said he, " who has been so often 
strongly recommended to you as a promising actress, 
is now at an hotel in Dublin, with her father and 
brother, where they have just arrived, and is pro- 
ceeding to Drogheda, to act at her father's theatre 
there. I have heard it said, by persons who have 
seen her, that she plays Juliet extremely well, and 
is very young and very pretty. I am sure she 
would be delighted to have the opportunity of 
appearing before a Dublin audience ; and, if you 
please, I will make her the proposal." 

The proposal was made, and accepted ; and on the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 301 

following Saturday the girl, who was Miss CTNeil, 
made her debut on the Dublin stage as Juliet. The 
audience were delighted ; she acted the part several 
nights, and Mr. Jones offered her father and brother 
engagements on very liberal terms, which were 
thankfully accepted. 

In Dublin, she was not only a great favourite in 
tragedy, but also in many parts of genteel comedy. I 
have there seen her play "Letitia Hardy ;" she danced 
very gracefully, and introduced my song, " In the 
rough blast heaves the billows, 1 " originally sung by 
Mrs. Jordan, at Drury Lane, which she sang so 
well, as to produce a general call for its repetition 
from the audience. She was, in private life, highly 
esteemed for her many amiable qualities. Her en- 
gagement in Dublin wafted Miss Walstein from 
Dublin, (where she had been for many years the 
heroine of Crow Street) to Drury Lane, where she 
made her appearance as Calista, in " The Fair 
Penitent," on the 13th of November, 1814, but 
only remained one season. 

On the 7th of February, 1815, Miss Mellon 
quitted the stage she made her last appearance at 
Drury Lane, in the character of Aubrey, in " As 
you like it." 

On the 29th of March, Mr. Arnold produced the 
opera, entitled " The Unknown Guest;" the sub- 
ject was taken from a French drama, and managed 



80 REMINISCENCES OF 

by Mr. Arnold with great adroitness. There 
were some excellent dramatic situations, and some 
good poetry he rendered the piece attractive for a 
few nights the music I composed. 

On the 4th of May, Mrs. Mountain had a 
benefit at the Opera House, and retired from 
the stage. 

On the 1st of June, 1815, the drama sustained 
an irreparable loss in the retirement of the 
worthy, honest, Jack Bannister, esteemed, be- 
loved, and respected : his career on the stage was 
long and successful. He made his entree before 
the public, at the Little Theatre, in the Hay- 
market, in the character of Dick, in Murphy^s 
farce of "The Apprentice," on the 27th of 
August, 1 778. I lived in habits of intimacy with 
him for many years; and he has often mentioned 
to me Mr. Garrick's partiality for him, who thought 
his talents much more calculated for tragedy than 
comedy. He played Zaphne, in " Mahomet/ 
" Hamlet,' 1 and many other tragic characters. But 
at last, his comic powers were called into action. 
In " Dabble, the Dentist," in my good and kind 
friend, Mr. Cobb's farce of " The Humourist," 
and"Tim Tartlet, in " The First Floor," he burst 
on the town as a low comedian. On the demise of 
Edwin, the wide range of comic characters, so ably 
performed by that truly eccentric actor, at the 



MICHAEL KELLT. 

Little Theatre, in the Haymarket, devolved upon 
Bannister. In Bovvkit, in "The Son-in-Law," 
" Peeping Tom,"' &c. he was eminently successful-. 
In " The Prize," in " Of Age To-morrow ;" and 
in a number of characters, in the outre line of 
acting, he had no competitor ; but, his great part 
of all, was Walter, in " The Children in the 
Wood."" I saw him in that character, the first 
night it came out, at the Haymarket, and wit- 
nessed also his last appearance in it for his 
benefit, at Prury Lane; and he then acted the 
part as finely as on the first night of its repre- 
sentation. With extreme emotion, but with a firm 
tone of voice, at the close of the afterpiece, he 
advanced to the audience, whom he addressed, in 
a speech, the latter part of which I fully recol- 
lect: his words were " Consideration of health 
warns me to retire ; your patronage has given me 
the means of doing so with comfort. This moment 
of quitting you, nearly overcomes me. At a period 
when gratitude and respect call upon me, to express 
my feelings with more eloquence than I could 
ever boast, those feelings deprive me of half the 
humble powers I may possess on ordinary occasions. 
Farewell, my kind, my dear benefactors." 

At the conclusion of his speech, he bowed 
respectfully to the audience, and was led off 



REMINISCENCES OF 

by all the performers of the Theatre, who attended to 
witness his farewell. No performer ever quitted the 
stage more deservedly respected or regretted. He 
had been seven and thirty years on Drury Lane 
stage ; and, I am happy to say, that, independent 
of a few attacks of the gout, which all virtuous 
persons are more or less subject to, he enjoys 
the comfort of his well-earned fortune, surrounded 
by his amiable wife and family : that he may long 
continue to do so, is my most ardent prayer. 

This season was also the last of Mr. Wrough- 
ton's appearance on the stage. He was a most 
intimate friend of Bannister they were scarcely 
ever to be seen asunder. I used to nick-name 
them u Orestes and Pylades." Wroughton was 
for many years stage-manager of Drury Lane 
Theatre, and had also been, for a number of 
years, proprietor of Sadler's Wells, and was sup- 
posed to have made a great deal of money by 
that place of amusement. Wroughton was a ster- 
ling, sound, sensible performer he never gave 
offence as an actor ; and in many parts was truly 
good. His Sir John Restless, in " All in the 
Wrong,"" Ford, in " The Merry Wives of 
Windsor," were among them. But, in my opi- 
nion, his performance of the part of Darlemont, 
in the play of " Deaf and Dumb," was a master- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 305 

piece of the arc, and ranked with Cooke's Sir 
Pertinax Macsycophant, KeinbleV Penruddock, 
or Dowtou's Doctor Cantwell. 

The stage, this season, nearly sustained a loss 
in Miss Kelly ; for, while acting in O'Keefe's farce 
of " The Merry Mourners," a pistol-shot was fired 
at her from the pit, on the 17th of February, 1816, 
at Drury Lane Theatre, by a Mr. Barnet, who, 
when taken into custody, proved to be a complete 
maniac. I was at the theatre at the time. 

Mrs. Siddons re-appeared at Covent Garden 
Theatre (by the express desire of Her Royal 
Highness the late Princess Charlotte of Wales, 
who expressed a wish to see her perform Lady 
Macbeth), on the 16th of June, 1816 ; but the 
sudden indisposition of the Princess Charlotte, 
prevented Her Royal Highness attending the 
theatre that evening. 

I had now to experience the loss of a true 
and sincere friend, in the death of that great 
man, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, who expired at 
his house in Saville Row, on the 7th July, 1816 
aged sixty-five. The body was removed to the 
house of Mr. Peter Moore, Member for Coven- 
try, and thence the Saturday following to West- 
minster Abbey, near those of Addison, Garrick, 
and Cumberland, followed by the Dukes of York 
and Sussex. The pall was borne by the Duke 



306 REMINISCENCES OF 

of Bedford, Lord Holland, Earl of Mulgrave> 
Earl of Lauderdale, the Bishop of London, and 
Lord Robert Spencer. His son, Mr. Charles 
Brinsley Sheridan, was chief mourner, supported 
by Mr. Henry Ogle, The Honourable Edward 
Bouverie, Mr. William Linley, Sir Charles Asgill, 
Bart. Mr. Charles Ward ; followed by a numerous 
train of the admirers of his splendid talents. 
Where the body [lies, there is a plain flat stone, 
with this inscription : 

RICHARD BRINSLEY SHERIDAN, 

Born 1751 ; Died 7th July, 1816. 

This Marble is the Tribute of an attached Friend, 

PETER MOORE. 

There were reports industriously circulated 
through the kingdom, that Mr. Sheridan, in his 
latter moments, was left in want of the common 
necessaries of life ; and the malignant propaga- 
tors of the report, went so far to gratify their 
own malice, as to assert that he called for a 
lemon, when exhausted with thirst, and that 
neither he, nor those about him, had the means 
of procuring him one. I, amongst a thousand 
others, heard this foolish tale asserted ; but I can 
solemnly aver, from my own knowledge, and from 



MICHAEL KELLY. SOT 

the evidence of those who were nearest and dearest 
to him, and who remained with him in his last 
moments, that all such reports were groundless, 
and fabricated for the most atrocious purposes of 
scandal. 

These dealers in malignity stated, that the sum 
of two hundred pounds was conveyed to Mr. She- 
ridan in a way that wounded his feelings, and 
returned by his direction, with the resentment of 
wounded pride. It is true, the money was sent, 
but in a totally different manner to that described, 
and returned in a totally different manner to what 
the world was taught to believe. The real fact is, 
that Mr. Sheridan's physician, then attending him? 
and also one of his most intimate friends, under- 
took to deliver it back to the illustrious donor, 
and, with all respect, to assure him that Mr. She^ 
ridan was in want of no pecuniary assistance. 

I sent, a few days before he died, for his own man, 
who was in attendance on him during the whole of 
his illness, and whom I knew to be faithfully attached 
to his master. He can testify that I entreated him to 
inform me if his master was in want of any comforts, 
for with any thing my means would afford I would 
furnish him ; but not to let him or the family know 
it came from me, Jolm assured me that his master 
was in want of nothing, and that those who had re- 
ported to the contrary, and made up libelous and 



808 REMINISCENCES OF 

injurious tales upon the subject, spoke falsely, and 
were base calumniators. 

The loss I sustained by Mr. Sheridan's death, I 
can but faintly depict : he was, as a companion and 
friend, to me beyond measure invaluable ; his rea- 
diness and taste were conspicuous ; his wit, though 
luxuriant and unbounded, never intrusive; and 
during the five and twenty years through which I 
enjoyed his friendship and society, I never heard 
him say a single word that could wound the feel- 
ings of a human being. 

His quickness in writing may be judged of by the 
circumstances I have already mentioned, relative 
to the state in which his " Pizarro" was produced, 
and he made a similar exertion at the time he 
brought out " The Critic." Two days previous to 
the performance, the last scene was not written ; 
Dr. Ford and Mr. Linley, the joint proprietors, 
began to get nervous and fidgetty, and the actors 
were absolutely au desespoir, especially King, who 
was not only stage-manager, but had to. play Puff; 
to him was assigned the duty of hunting down 
and worrying Sheridan about the last scene ; day 
after day passed, until, as I have just said, the last 
day but two arrived, and it made not its appearance. 

At last, Mr. Linley, who being his father-in-law, 
was pretty well aware of his habits, hit upon a stra- 
tagem. A night rehearsal of " The Critic" was 



MICHAEL KELLY. 309 

ordered, and Sheridan, having dined with Linley, 
was prevailed upon to go ; while they were on the 
stage, King whispered Sheridan that he had some- 
thing particular to communicate, and begged he 
would step into the second green-room. Accord- 
ingly, Sheridan went, and there found a table, with 
pens, ink, and paper, a good fire, an armed chair at 
the table, and two bottles of claret,' with a dish of an- 
chovy sandwiches. The moment he got into the 
room, King stepped out, and locked the door; 
immediately after which, Linley and Ford came 
up and told the author that, until he had written the 
scene, he would be kept where he was. 

Sheridan took this decided measure in good part ; 
he ate the anchovies, finished the claret, wrote the 
scene, and laughed heartily at the ingenuity of the 
contrivance. 

This anecdote I had from King himself. An- 
other instance of his readiness and rapidity, when he 
chose to exert himself, occurred at the time when 
his pantomime of " Robinson Crusoe 1 ' was in rehear- 
sal. He happened to call in at the theatre one day, 
and found them in the greatest confusion, not 
knowing what to introduce to give time for the set- 
ting of a scene ; it was suggested to Mr. Sheridan 
that a song would afford sufficient opportunity to the 
carpenters for their preparation ; accordingly, he 
sat down at the prompter's table, on the stage, and 



310 REMINISCENCES OF 

wrote on the back of a playbill the beautiful ballad 
of" The Midnight Watch," which was set to music 
by his father-in-law, Mr. Linley, in a style which 
has established it as one of the most beautiful speci- 
mens of pure English melody. 

An observation Mr. Sheridan once made to me 
about Congreve's plays, I venture to repeat, it has 
so much genuine wit about it : he complained to me 
that " Love for Love" had been so^ much altered 
and modified for the more delicate ears of modern 
audiences that it was quite spoiled. " His plays/ 
said the wit, " are, I own, somewhat licentious, but 
it is barbarous to mangle them ; they are like horses, 
when you deprive them of their vice, they lose their 
vigour." 

It is of course known, that Mr. Burke, in the 
early part of his life, enlisted under the banners of 
Opposition, and was a constant frequenter of the 
house of a baker of the name of Tarcome, where 
the aspirants for fame, on that side of the question, 
used to meet, and debate certain proposed questions ; 
the baker himself was eventually constituted per- 
petual president of the well-known Robin Hood so- 
ciety ; such was the estimation in which he was held 
by the disciples of Whiggery. 

Upon a memorable occasion, Mr. Burke, in the 
House of Commons, exclaimed, " I quit the camp," 
and suddenly crossed the House ; and having seated 






MICHAEL JCELLY. 311 

himself on the ministerial benches, shortly after rose, 
and made a most brilliant speech in opposition to his 
ci-devant friends and adherents. 

Sheridan was a good deal nettled at what he con- 
sidered a needless defection, and replied with some- 
thing like asperity to Mr. Burke's attack, and con- 
cluded his speech with nearly these words : " The 
Honourable Gentleman, to quote his own expression, 
has 'quitted the camp;' he will recollect that he 
quitted it as a deserter, and I sincerely hope he will 
never attempt to return as a spy : but I, for one, 
cannot sympathise in the astonishment with which 
an act of apostacy so flagrant has electrified the 
House ; for neither I, nor the Honourable Gentle- 
man, have forgotten whence he obtained the weapons 
which he now uses against us : so far from being 
at all astonished at the Honourable Gentleman's 
tergiversation, I consider it not only characteristic 
but consistent, that he who in the outset of life 
made so extraordinary a blunder as to go to a baker's 
for eloquence, should finish such a career by com- 
ing to the House of Commons to get bread." 

One of Mr. Sheridan's favourite amusements, in 
his hours of recreation, was that of making blunders 
for me, and relating them to my friends, vouching 
for the truth of them with the most perfect gravity. 
One I remember was, that one night, when Drury 
Lane Theatre was crowded to excess in every part, 

1 



312 REMINISCENCES OF 

I was peeping through the hole in the stage cur- 
tain, and John Kemble, who was standing on the 
stage near me, asked me how the house looked, and 
that I replied, " By J s, you can't stick a pin's 
head in any part of it it is literally chuck full : but 
how much fuller will it be to-morrow night, when 
the King comes !" 

Another of Mr. Sheridan's jests against me was, 
that one day, having walked with him to Kemble^s 
house, in great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, wher* 
the streets were very dirty, and having gone up the 
steps while Mr. Sheridan was scraping the dirt off 
his shoes, I asked him to scrape for me while I was 
knocking at the door. 

Of all our poets, Dryden was Mr. Sheridan's 
favourite ; many a time and oft, when sitting over 
our wine, have I heard him quote at great length 
from him. It -was truly a treat to hear him recite 
poetry ; he had a powerful voice, and nothing, when 
animated, could surpass the brilliancy of his coun- 
tenance, and the fire of his eye. 

On the 15th July, 1797, at the Haymarket Thea- 
tre, George Colman's excellent comedy of " The 
Heir at Law" was produced. Mr. Sheridan, the 
same year, was passing the autumn in the Isle of 
Wight, enjoying, as he used to say, one of his great- 
est delights, sailing backwards and forwards from 
Cowes to Southampton; and when he returned to 

3 



MICHAEL KELLY. 313 

town, he told me that he had seen " The Heir at 
Law" acted there. He said the play was not well 
performed, but he was greatly amused with it, and 
thought it an excellent comedy, and wished Colman 
could be prevailed upon to write just such another 
for Drury Lane. Many years after, I went with 
him, one evening, to Covent Garden (after having 
dined together at the Piazza Coffee-house), and saw 
Kenny's admirable farce of " Raising the Wind" 
performed. No schoolboy at home for the holidays 
could have laughed more heartily than he did; 
he was quite delighted with the character of Jeremy 
Diddler, and with the acting of Lewis and Emery. 

At one time, when hard pressed to pay the Opera 
Orchestra, who were greatly in arrear, and had 
resolved not to perform unless their debt was liqui- 
dated, threatening to make an application to the 
Lord Chamberlain; Mr. Sheridan was roused, to 
make an effort to raise five hundred pounds, which 
was the immediate sum required. He found a per- 
son ready to make an advance for three months, 
with a proviso, that Stephen Storace and myself who 
then managed the Opera, should give our joint 
security for the repayment. Being both of us eager 
that the concern should not stop, we did so, and he 
promised faithfully to provide for it. The very day 
the bill became due, Storace was with me, in the 
morning; we were both in inodo penseroso, won- 

VOL. II. P 



314 REMINISCENCES OF 

dering how we could contrive to get it renewed; 
when, to our great surprise, Mr. Sheridan entered, 
laughing, with our acceptance dangling between his 
fingers, the sight of which changed our modo pense- 
roso to an allegro vivace ; he put our security into 
my hands, at which my heart did verily rejoice, and 
with all sincerity I made use of the quotation, 

" For this relief, much thanks." 

I mention this to shew, however general the im- 
pression of Mr. Sheridan's want of punctuality in 
money matters may be, that there is no rule without 
an exception. 

The last time I saw Mr. Sheridan, was in the 
room in Drury Lane, formerly the treasury of the 
old theatre, where a man of the name of Farebro- 
ther, an old servant of his, was allowed, by the 
Drury Lane Committee, to reside. He was sitting 
alone, reading, with a muffin and a cup of coffee 
before him. On my entering the room, he told me 
that he had been reading Davies 1 " Life of Garrick," 
which, said he, " if you have not read, do read, 
and advise every actor, from me, to do the same, for 
it is well worth their attention.*" 

I remained with him till four o'clock in the morn- 
ing, tete-a-tete. I never saw him more pleasant or 
communicative. He dwelt particularly on his fa- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 315 

ther's acting the part of King John, and " without 
partiality," he said, " his scene with Hubert was a 
master-piece of the art; and no actor could ever 
reach its excellence."" I had been told by Jefferson, 
the proprietor of the Plymouth Theatre, who had 
often seen old Mr. Sheridan act King John, in Dub- 
lin, that nothing could surpass it. 

Mr. Sheridan also spoke of his father's Cato, as a 
masterly performance, as well as his Brutus, in 
" Julius Caesar."" The Cato of the elder Sheridan 
was always very popular with the Dublin audience* 
Mr. Hitchcock, who wrote the history of the " Irish 
Stage," remembered him perfectly in the character. 
I have often heard him say that his declamation was 
fine and impressive ; he pronounced " Cato" with 
a broad a, as, indeed, all the Irish do. John Kem- 
ble always pronounced it c Cato ;' and when he 
acted the part in Dublin, the play was announced 
from the stage by an old actor of the Sheridan school, 
who, despising the innovation of Kemble, gave it 
out thus : " Ladies and Gentlemen, to-morrow 
evening will be performed the tragedy of ' Cato,' 
the part of Cato by Mr. Kemble." The manner in 
which he pronounced the same name in two different 
ways, produced great laughter in the audience, who 
quite understood the sarcasm. When I related this 
anecdote to Mr. Sheridan, he seemed to enjoy the 
pertinacity of the Irish actor. 



316 REMINISCENCES OF 

One day, Mr. Sheridan laughingly said to me, 
" It must be allowed, Kelly, that our coutrymen 
always shew more or less of the potatoe in their 
brain. Yesterday, at about four o'clock in the 
morning, I came out of Brookes's, where I had staid 
the very last ; and, as I was stepping into the car- 
riage, I saw some half-dozen Irish chairmen, loitering 
at the door, shivering with cold, waiting for a fare. 
It was a bitter morning, and I said to one of the 
poor devils, ' Why do you remain here, my good 
fellow? 1 

" ( Please your honour,' replied one of them, 
c we are waiting to take somebody home.' 

" ' You may save yourselves the trouble then, 1 
said I ; c for I have just come out of the house, and 
there is nobody left in it.' 

" * Please your honour, we know there is nobody 
in it, but who knows how many may come out.' " 

" It was too cold," said Sheridan, " to argue with 
them, so I got into my coach, and left them." 

It would be the height of arrogance and indiscre- 
tion in me to descant on, or eulogise the public cha- 
racter of Mr. Sheridan ; but I trust that his political 
life will be handed down to posterity, by some able 
pen, uninfluenced by favour or enmity ; for, take 
him as a statesman, an orator, a dramatist, and a 
poet united, I fear we shall scarcely ever see his 
like again. His good qualities were many; and, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 317 

after all, the great bane of his life was procrastina- 
tion ; had it not been for that, what could he not 
have achieved! To me, his memory will be ever 
dear, and ought to be so to all who admire great 
and splendid talents. Yet he had many enemies ; 
some of whom, to my knowledge, his former bounty 
fed. But, alas ! to use the language of our great 
bard, 

" The etil that men do, lives after them ; 
The gnod, is often interred with their bones." 

Much good remains upon authentic record, rela- 
tive to Mr. Sheridan, which even his greatest ene- 
mies could never deny. Some of the stories which 
exist against him, however, have a vast deal of 
humour in them ; and one which has often been 
told, I think worth inserting, because, having been 
an eye-witness of the circumstance, I am enabled 
to shew the very " head and front of his offending." 

We were one day in earnest conversation, close to 
the gate of the path which was then open to the 
public, leading across the church-yard of St. Paul's, 
Covent Garden, from King Street to Henrietta 
Street, when Mr. Holloway, who was a creditor of 
Sheridan's to a considerable amount, came up to us 
on horseback, and accosted Sheridan in a tone of 
something more like anger than sorrow, and com- 
plained that he never could get admittance when he 



318 REMINISCENCES OF 

called, vowing vengeance against the infernal Swiss 
Monsieur Francois, if he did not let him in the next 
time he went to Hertford Street. 

Holloway was really in a passion. Sheridan 
knew that he was vain of his judgment in horse- 
flesh ; and without taking any notice of the violence 
of his manner, burst into an exclamation upon the 
beauty of the horse which he rode ; he struck the 
right chord. 

" Why," said Holloway, " I think I may say, 
there never was a prettier creature than this. You 
were speaking to me, when I last saw you, about a 
horse for Mrs. Sheridan ; now this would be a trea- 
sure for a lady." 

" Does he canter well ?" said Sheridan. 

" Beautifully," replied Holloway. 

" If that's the case, Holloway," said Sheridan, 
" I really should not mind stretching a point for 
him. Will you have the kindness to let me see his 
paces ?" 

" To be sure," said the lawyer; and putting 
himself into a graceful attitude, he threw his nag 
into a canter along the market. 

The moment his back was turned, Sheridan wished 
me good morning, and went off through the 
church-yard, where no horse could follow, into 
Bedford Street, laughing immoderately, as indeed 
clid several standers-by. The only person not 



MICHAEL KELLY. 319 

entertained by this practical joke was Mr. Hollo way 
himself. 

Another story of him I shall give, because it is 
very little known, if known at all. Mr. Harris, the 
late proprietor of Covent Garden, who had a great 
regard for Sheridan, had at different times frequent 
occasions to meet him on business, and made appoint- 
ment after appointment with him, not one of which 
Sheridan ever kept. At length Mr. Harris, wearied 
out, begged his friend Mr. Palmer, of Bath, to see 
Mr. Sheridan, and tell him that unless he kept the 
next appointment made for their meeting, all ac- 
quaintance between them must end for ever. 

Sheridan expressed great sorrow for what had been 
in fact inevitable, and fixed one o'clock the next day 
to call upon Mr. Harris at the theatre. At about 
three he actually made his appearance in Hart 
Street, where he met Mr. Tregent, the celebrated 
French watchmaker, who was extremely theatrical, 
and had been the intimate friend of Garrick. 

Sheridan told him, that he was on his way to call 
upon Harris. 

" I have just left him," said Tregent, " in a vio- 
lent passion, having waited for you ever since one 
o'clock." 

" What have yo u been doing at the theatre ?" said 
Sheridan. 

" Why," replied Tregent, " Harris is going to 



320 REMINISCENCES OF 

make Bate Dudley a present of a gold watch, and 
I have taken him half a dozen, in order that he 
may choose one for that purpose." 

" Indeed," said Sheridan. 

They wished each other good day, and parted. 

Mr. Sheridan proceeded to Mr. Harris's room, 
and when he addressed him, it was pretty evident 
that his want of punctuality had produced the effect 
which Mr. Tregent described. 

" Well, Sir," said Mr. Harris ; " I have waited 
at least two hours for you again ; I had almost 
given you up, and if " 

" Stop, my dear Harris," said Sheridan, inter- 
rupting him ; " I assure you these things occur 
more from my misfortunes than my faults ; I de- 
clare I thought it was but one o'clock, for it so hap- 
pens that I have no watch, and to tell you the truth, 
am too poor to buy one ; but when the day comes 
that I can, you will see I shall be as punctual as any 
other man." 

" Well, then," said the unsuspecting Harris ; 
" if that be all, you shall not long want a watch ; for 
here (opening his drawer) are half a dozen of 
Tregent's best ; choose any one you like, and do 
me the favour of accepting it." 

Sheridan affected the greatest surprise at the ap- 
pearance of the watches; but did as he was bid, and 
Selected certainly not the worst for the cadeau* 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

A punster, in return for Sheridan's hatred of 
puns, would certainly have made a joke of his affec- 
tion for watches, because they go tick ; for myself, I 
have too much respect for Mr. Sheridan's memory, 
to give way to such a propensity. 

Mr. Sheridan was extremely attached to Mr* 
Richardson ; and when Mrs. Sheridan was at Bog- 
nor, he used to take Richardson down with him on 
visits to her. One of these visits Sheridan once de- 
scribed to me with infinite humour ; and although I 
fear it is impossible to impart literally, the spirit 
which he practically infused into it, when relating 
it, I give it as I remember it. 

Richardson had set his mind upon going down to 
Bognor with Mr. Sheridan on one particular occa- 
sion, because it happened that Lord Thurlow, with 
whom he was on terms of intimacy, was staying 
there. " So," said Richardson, " nothing can be 
more delightful, what with my favourite diversion 
of sailing my enjoyment of walking on the sands 
the pleasure of arguing with Lord Thurlow, and tak- 
ing my snuff by the sea-side, I shall be in my glory." 

" Well," said Mr. Sheridan ; " down he went, 
full of anticipated joys. The first day, in stepping 
into the boat to go sailing, he tumbled down, and 
sprained his ancle, and was obliged to be carried 
into his lodgings, which had no view of the sea: 
the following morning he sent for a barber to shave 
him, but there being no professional shaver nearer 



REMINISCENCES OF 

than Chichester, he was forced to put up with a 
fisherman, who volunteered to officiate, and cut him 
severely just under his nose, which entirely prevented 
his taking snuff; and the same day at breakfast, 
eating prawns too hastily, he swallowed the head of 
one, horns and all, which stuck in his throat, and 
produced such pain and inflammation, that his me- 
dical advisers would not allow him to speak for 
three days. So, thus," said Mr. Sheridan, " ended, 
in four and twenty hours his walking his sailing 
his snuff-taking and his arguments." 

Mr. Sheridan was the author of the following 
dramatic pieces : 

" The Rivals," at Covent Garden, 1775. 

" Saint Patrick's Day," a farce, 1775 ; this was 
written in two days, for the benefit of the facetious 
Larry Clinch, a brother actor, and intimate friend 
of his father, and the original Sir Lucius O'Trigger. 

" The Duenna," at Covent Garden, which ran 
seventy nights without intermission. 

The " Trip to Scarborough," altered from Sir 
John Vanbrugh ; Drury Lane, 1777. 

The " School for Scandal,'' Drury Lane, 1777. 

" The Camp," musical entertainment, in two 
acts, Drury Lane, 1778. 

" The Critic," of which he told me, that he valued 
the first act more than any thing he ever wrote. 

u Pizarro" is his only other production, except 
the pantomime of " Robinson Crusoe." He began 



MICHAEL KELLY. 323 

aa opera, called the " Foresters," and had written 
an act or two of a comedy, which he never finished. 

It was one of Doctor Johnson's sayings, that if a 
man do not make new acquaintances as he advances 
in life, he will soon find himself alone in the world. 
The truth of the observation I can vouch for by 
experience. I have found ah 1 the friends of my 
early life drop round me ; and honourable and 
valued as have been many of them, the loss of no 
one certainly was more deplored by me, than that of 
Mr. Sheridan. If I have said much of him, it was 
because I loved and respected him ; and the reader, 
to whom any illustrations of such a man's character 
must I flatter myself be acceptable, will excuse me. 

In the year 1818, I composed the music to a 
piece called The Bride of Abydos;" and in 
1820, to another called " Abudah ;" and my last 
production was a musical entertainment, called the 
'' Lady and the Devil, 11 for Drury Lane. Between 
the years 1797 and 1821, I produced, at different 
theatres, sixty-two pieces, by far the greatest num- 
ber produced by any one English composer, Bishop 
excepted. Most of them, I have the satisfaction to 
say, have been received by the public with favour ; 
and I have thought it might not be disagreeable to 
my friends to see a list of them, for which reason I 
have subjoined the titles, dates, the names of their 
authors, and the theatres where they were per- 
formed. 



39A 



HEMIXISCKXC.ES OF 



General Conway . 



Prince Hoare 
Cumberland . 
Walsh Porter 
M. G. Lewis . 



Deaf and Dumb 



False Appearances . 

Fashionable Friends 

A Friend in Need . 

Last of the Family . 

Chimney Corner . , 

Castle Spectre . . . 

Blue Beard G. Colman . . 

Outlaws Franklin . . . 

Captive of Spielberg . Prince Hoare 

Aurelia and Miranda . Boaden .... 

Feudal Times G. Colman . . 

Pizarro Sheridan . . . 

Of Age To-morrow. . Dibdiu .... 

De Montfort Miss Baillie . 

Indians Fenwick . . . 

Translated from the 
French, by Hoi- 
croft, and adapt, 
ed to the English 
stage by Mr. 
Kemble .... 

Adehnorn M. G. Lewis . . . 

Gipsey Prince . . . . T. Moore 

Urania Hon. W. Spencer, 

Algonah Cobb 

House to be Sold . . . Cobb 

Hero of the North . 
Marriage Promise . 
Love laughs at Lock 

smiths 

Cinderella Mr. James 

Counterfeit Franklin . 

Hunter of the Alps. . Diiuond . 
Gay Deceivers . . . . G. Colman 
Blind Bargain .... Reynolds . 
The Land we live in . Holt . . . 
Honey Moon Tobin . . . 



Drury Lane 

Ibid . 

Ibid . 

Ibid . , 

Ibid . 

Ibid . 

Ibid . 

Ibid . 

Ibid . , 

Ibid . 

Ibid . , 

Ibid . , 
Ibid 

Ibid . 

Ibid , 



178? 
1789 

9th Feb. 1797 

8th May, 1797 

7th Oct. 1797 

1 1th Dec. 1797 

10th Jan. 1798 

16th Oct. 1798 

Oct. 1798 

29th Dec. 1798 

19th Jan. 1799 

24th May, 1799 

1st Feb. 1800 

29th April, 1800 

6th Oct. 1800 



Ibid . . 24th Feb. 1801 



Dimond . 
Allingham 

. G. Colman 



Drury Lane . 
Haymarket . 
Drury Lane . 

Ibid . . 

Ibid . . 

Ibid . . 

Ibid , 



4th May, 1801 

24th July, 1801 

22d Jan. 1802 

30th April, 1802 

17th Nov. 1802 

19th Feb. 180$ 

26th April, 1803 



Haymarket . 25th July, 1803 



Drury Lane . 

Ibid . . 
Haymarket . 

Ibid .. . 
Cov. Garden, 
Drury Lane . 

Ibid 



8th Jan. 1804 

13th Mar. 1804 

3rd July, 1804 

22nd Aug. 1804 

24th Oct. 1804 

29th Dec. 1804 

31st Jan. 1805 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



325 



Prior Claim Pye and Arnold 

Youth, Love, & Folly, Dimond .... 

We Fry by Night . 

Forty Thieves . . 

Adrian and Orilla 

Young Htissar . . 

Town and Country 

Wood Daemon . . 

House of Morville 

Adelgitha M. G. Lewis 

Time's a Tell Tale . . H. Siddons . 
Jew of Mogadore . . Cumberland 

Africans G. Cohnan . 

Venoni M. G. Lewis 



Drury Lane . 
Ibid . . 
G. Colman .... Cov. Garden, 

Ward Drury Lane . 

Dimond Cov. Garden, 

Dimond Drury Lane . 

Morton Cov. Garden, 

M. G. Lewis . . . Drury Lane . 

Lake Ibid . . 

Ibid . . 
Ibid . . 
Ibid . . 
Haymarket . 
Drury Lane . 



29th Oct. 1805 

23rd May, 1805 

28th Jan. 1806 

8th April, 1806 

15th Nov. 1806 

12th Mar. 1807 

10th Mar. 1807 

1st April, 1807 

23rd April, 1807 

30th April, 1807 

27th Oct. 1807 

3rd May, 1808 

29th July, 1808 

1st Dec. 1808 



Foundling of the Fo- ? Dimond Haymarket . 9th July, 1809 

rest 3 

Jubilee ........ Arnold Lyceum . . . 25th Oct. 1809 

GustavusVasa .... Dimond Cov. Garden, 26th Nov. 1810 

Ballet Deshayes Opera House, 1810 

Peasant Boy Dimond Lyceum . . . 31st Jan. 1811 

Royal Oak Dimond Haymarket . 10th June, 1811 

One o'Clock M. G. Lewis ... 1st Aug. 1811 

Absent Apothecary . Horace .Smith .. Drury Lane . loth Feb. 1813 

Russians T. Sheridan .... Ibid . . 13th May, 1813 

Polly ; or, the Sequel ? Ibid lfith Jm ^ lglR 

to Beggar's Opera \ 

Illusion Arnold Ibid . . 25th Nov. 1813 

Pantomime Dibdin Ibid . . 26th Dec. 1813 

Remorse Coleridge .... Ibid . . 23rd Jan. 1814 

Unknown Guest . . . Arnold .' Ibid . . 29th Mar. 1815 

FallofTaranto. . . . Dimond Cov. Garden, 1817 

Bride of Abydos . . . Dimond Drnry Lane . 5th Feb. 1818 

Abudah Planche Ibid . . 13th April, 1819 

Lady and the Devil . Dimond Ibid . . 3rd May, 1820 

With a numerous list of Italian, English, and French single Songs, 
Duets, and Trios. 



326 REMINISCENCES OF 

I have been, with little intermission, stage-mana- 
ger of the King's Theatre, in the Haymarket, 
nearly thirty years ; at which establishment also, I 
have performed as principal tenor singer, both in 
the serious and comic operas. The regular emolu- 
ment for my labours, (and be it known to all, that 
to manage an Italian Opera is a most laborious task) 
has been, the use of the house, and the performers 
belonging to it, for my annual benefit ; defraying 
myself, however, every other expense belonging to 
the performance of the night. Through all the 
changes of different proprietorships and lessees, 
this privilege has been invariably granted me, as a 
reward for long service. 

When I withdrew from Drury Lane Theatre, 
as a performer, I commuted a very large claim 
upon the property, for a small annuity. This 
agreement has been sanctioned, and punctually 
fulfilled, by all the noblemen and gentlemen who 
have subsequently formed the various committees 
of management ; and, since the termination of their 
authority, has been discharged with equal honour 
and scrupulousness of attention, by Mr. Elliston, 
the present lessee ; from whom I have uniformly 
experienced the most friendly, nay, even brotherly 
kindness. 

There was also a privilege granted me, that upon 
my benefit at the Opera House, any performers 



MICHAEL KELLY. 327 

attached to the Drury Lane establishment, and not 
employed there upon the same night, should be 
available assistants in whatever English drama I 
might select for representation. It is a proud gra- 
tification to me, to add, that in my brothers and 
sisters of the sock and buskin, I have always 
found the most cheerful alacrity upon this occasion. 
Neither must I omit to observe, that upon many 
emergencies, the proprietors of the Theatre Royal 
Covent Garden, (although upon that establish- 
ment I have no claim whatever,) have, in the 
most liberal manner, spontaneously obliged me with 
any assistance within their power to furnish. 

The gout has, of late years, almost deprived 
me of loco-motion. Both my parents were suf- 
ferers from the same disorder, in me, there- 
fore, it is constitutional, and not my age's 
penance for my youth's excess ; for in that 
season, I may say, with Old Adam, in " As you 
Like it," I never did apply hot and rebellious 
liquors to my blood. 'Tis an ancient adage, 
that the gout grants to its possessor a long lease 
of life if it be so, I am sure the lease is held at 
a rack-rent. Upon the whole, however, although 
noil sum qualis cram, I may yet say, that my 
general health is good, and my spirits never 
better shall I then complain of my lot ? Forbid 



328 REMINISCENCES OF 

it, Heaven ! In spite of all the inflictions of my 
hereditary scourge, I bow my head submissively, 
and acknowledge, with an humble, yet cheerful 
thankfulness, that the hand of Providence hath 
touched me tenderly. 

One superior solace, under my worst visitations, 
I have indeed possessed, which yet remains untold. 
With some, perhaps, an avowal of it may draw 
upon me an imputation of pride or vanity ; but, if 
I know myself, gratitude is paramount with me to 
either of those passions; and all liberal spirits, I 
trust, will excuse the apparent boast. Let me 
therefore declare, without equivocation or disguise, 
that the chief and dearest comfort remaining to me 
in this life, is the proud consciousness, that I am ho- 
noured by the patronage of my beloved Monarch. 
Even from my earliest arrival in these realms, 
where George the Fourth now reigns in peace 
and glory, it was my enviable fortune 'to be 
distinguished by the Royal Favour ; and the 
humble individual, who, in 1787, was noticed 
by the Prince of Wales, is still remembered in 
1825 by THE KING ! 

I cannot here refrain from mentioning a 
circumstance which occurred to me on the 1st 
of January, 1822 ; and I sincerely trust there 
will not appear any impropriety in my doing so ? 



MICHAEL KELLY. 329 

since it records a trait of gracious goodness and 
consideration in His Majesty, which, although 
but one of hundreds, is but little known, and 
richly deserves to be universally so. 

On that evening, the King gave a splendid 
party at the Pavilion ; and His Majesty was 
graciously pleased to command my attendance to 
hear a concert performed by his own fine band. 
His Majesty did me the honour to seat himself 
beside me, and ask me how I liked the music which 
I had that day heard in the chapel, amongst which, 
to my surprise, had been introduced the Chacoone 
of Jomelli, performed in the "Castle Spectre,"" 
but which since has been called the Sanctus of 
Jomelli, and is now used in all the cathedrals 
and churches in England and the Continent, under 
that title. His Majesty was all kindness and con- 
descension in his manner towards me; but his 
kindness and condescension did not stop there. 

I had taken with me to Brighton that year a 
god-daughter of mine, Julia Walters, whom I 
have adopted, and whose mother has been, for 
years, my housekeeper and watchful attendant 
during my many severe illnesses. This little girl, 
at five years old, performed the part of the Child^ 
in the opera of " L' Agnese," under the name of 
Signora Julia. Ambrogetti was so struck with my 



OHO 



REMINISCENCES OF 



little prottgte, that he begged I would let her play 
the character, which she did with grace and intel- 
ligence far beyond her years. This child asked me 
to procure her a sight of the King, and fixed upon 
the evening in question to press her request, when 
she might behold him in the midst of his Court, 
surrounded by all that was brilliant in the land, 
and in a palace whose splendour, when illuminated, 
rivalled the magnificence described in the " Arabian 
Nights." 

I told my worthy friend Cramer, the excellent 
master and leader of His Majesty's private band, 
the earnest desire of little Julia, and prevailed upon 
him to admit her behind the organ, with a strict 
injunction not to let herself be seen ; but female 
curiosity, even in one so young, prevailed ; and after 
the first act of the concert, when the performers 
retired to take some refreshment, Signora Julia 
crept from her hiding-place behind the organ, and 
seated herself between the kettle drums. The King 
was sitting on a sofa, between the Princess Ester- 
hazy and the Countess Lieven; and though the 
orchestra was at a distance, His Majesty's quick 
eye in a moment caught a glimpse of the little 
intruder. 

" Who is that beautiful little child ?" said the 
King ; " Who brought her here ?" and immedi- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 331 

ately walked to poor Julia, and asked her who 
she was. 

" I belong to KC said Julia. 

4 * And who the deuce is K?" said His Majesty. 

I was seated quite at the farther end of the 
room, conversing with *Sir William Keppell ; and 
the moment I saw what was going on, I requested 
Sir William to go to the King, and say that the 
child belonged to me, which he with great good- 
nature did. 

His Majesty kissed poor little Julia ; and taking 
her into his arms, threw her over his shoulder, and 
carried her across the room to me, and placed her in 
a chair by my side, saying, with the greatest con- 
descension, " Why did you leave the child in the 
cold ? Why not bring her into the room ? If she 
be fond of music, bring her here whenever you 
like/"* 

This act of kindness, consideration, and good- 
ness, was duly appreciated by all who witnessed 
it, and by me will be ever remembered with the 
most respectful gratitude. On the following even- 
ing, when I again had the honour of a command to 
the palace, His Majesty was pleased to inquire after 
my pretty little girl. 

My friend, Prince Hoare, who was at Brighton 
at the time, wrote the following lines on the 
incident : 



REMINISCENCES OF 



ON JULIA, PEEPING 

In the music room of the Pavilion, at Brighton, on the 1st January, 
1822, and discovered in the fact by His MOST GRACIOUS 
MAJESTY GEORGE THE FOURTH ; who, with his never-failing 
kindness of heart, and condescension, seized the little culprit in his 
arms, kissed and caressed hei', and bore hei' in triumph, before the 
brilliant assembly, to her nearest and dearest friend, MICHAEL 
KELLY, then present. 

Behind the lofty organ's screen, 
One gala eve, sly Julia lay, 
Intent to peep, at whiles, unseen, 
And all the glorious pomp survey. 

O, little didst thou dream that eye 
Which wakes to guard Britannia's crown, 
Would there thy tiny form espy, 
And give thee, Julia, to renown. 

For many seasons past, upon my annual night, 
I have been regularly honoured with a muni- 
ficent donation from my Sovereign ; but, valu- 
able to me as is that bounty in itself, the gift 
has scarcely been so gratifying to the feelings of 
his dutiful servant, as the manner of presenting' it. 

A delicacy, which anticipated wishes 
A generosity, which exceeded hopes. 

Were I to indulge my feelings, I should be 



MICHAEL KELLY. 333 

diffuse upon this subject ; but I check myself, 
lest I should offend in a quarter where dis- 
pleasure would afflict me most. 

I therefore shall merely venture to add, that 
whenever my malady casts me upon a bed of suf- 
fering, I do not forget, that the most august hand 
in the Empire has condescended to place round 
it additional comforts; and that no sooner does 
my relenting star restore me to society, than my 
benefactor's name blesses the first glass I carry 
to my lips ; and I say and sing, with heart and 
voice, devoutly and gratefully, 

GOD SAVE THE KING !" 



! >w ! : 



i 



' > '3lh 



IHT 






APPENDIX. 



HAVING been for so many years connected with 
the Opera House, and having had the most au- 
thentic information upon all matters connected with 
it, it appears to me that the following narrative may 
be acceptable to such of my readers as are inte- 
rested in the fate of that establishment. 



THE KING'S THEATRE; 

OR, 

THE ROYAL ITALIAN OPERA HOUSE, 



AT the beginning of the last century, the company of 
players, with the celebrated Betterton at their head, 
having refitted the Tennis Court in Lincoln's Inn Fields, 
performed there with considerable success for a few 
seasons ; but finding the house too small, and that the 
Drury Lane company were more attractive than them- 
selves, by possessing a more convenient and spacious 
theatre, and backed by the Kit-Cat Club, joined in a 
proposition made them by Sir John Vanbrugh, to build 
for their use a stately theatre in the Hay market ; which, 
as being nearer the court than the neighbourhood of 
Drury Lane, might be more likely to succeed than any 
other part of the metropolis. To commence the build- 



336 APPENDIX. 

ing of this theatre, Sir John began with raising a sub- 
scription of thirty thousand pounds from three hundred 
persons of quality, at one hundred pounds each ; in 
consideration whereof every subscriber, for his own life, 
was to be admitted to whatever entertainments should 
be publicly performed there, without further payment for 
his entrance. The plan succeeded to Sir John's wish, 
the money was raised, and the building begun, under 
Sir John's inspection, who was himself the sole architect, 
as well as first projector. Of this Theatre Colley 
Gibber informs us, he saw the first stone laid in 1704 ; 
" on which was inscribed the Little Whig, in honour to 
a lady of extraordinary beauty, then the celebrated 
toast, and pride of that party." A satirical writer says, 
" The Kit-Cat Club is now grown famous and notorious 
all over the kingdom, and they have built a temple for 
their Dagon the new play-house in the Haymarket. 
The foundation was laid with great solemnity by a 
noble babe of grace* ; and over or under the foundation 

* The " Babe of Grace," or " Little Whig," was the beautiful 
Lady Sunderland, second daughter of the Duke of Marlborough. 
There are some lines, 

On the Lady SunderlancTs laying the first Stone of Her Majesty's 
Theatre, in the Haymarket. 

What pompous scenes and lofty columns rise, 
That strike with artful strokes our wond'ring eyes, 
And seize the raptured soul with sweet surprise : 
O ! what a stately dome w' admiring view, 
Whose chief foundation '& owing still to you, &c. 

I 



APPENDIX. 337 

stone is a plate of silver, on which is graven KIT CAT 
on the one side, and LITTLE WHIG on the other. This 
is in futuram rci tnemoriam, that after-ages may know 
by what worthy hands, and for what good ends, this 
stately fabric was erected. And there was such zeaf 
shewed*, all purses open to carry on the wor;t, that it 
was almost as soon finished as begun." In the year 
1705, when this house was finished, Beiterton and his 
co-partners dissolved their own agreement, and threw 
themselves under the direction of Sir John Vanbrugh, 
who had obtained a grant from Queen Anne, and Mr, 
Congrevc, who had joined himself with Sir John in the 
management ; the players thinking that two such emi- 
nent authors might give a prosperous turn to their 
condition ; that the plays it would now be their interest 
to write for them would attract the whole town, and be 
an advantage that no other company could hope for ; 
and in the interim, till such plays could be written, the 
grandeur of their house, as it was a spectacle, might 
allure the public, by its novelty and striking appearance, 
to /support them. In this golden dream they however 
found themselves miserably deceived and disappointed ; 
as, on the opening of this grand and superb structure, it 
was immediately discovered that almost every quality 
and convenience of a good theatre had been sacrificed 
and neglected, to shew the spectator a vast triumphal 
piece of architecture ; and that the best play was less 

The Rehearsal of Observator, No. 41. May 512, 1705. 
VOL. II. ft 



338 APPENDIX. 

capable of delighting the auditor here, than it would be 
in the plain and unadorned house they had just come 
from ; for, what with their vast columns, their gilded 
cornices, and immoderately high roof, scarce one word 
in ten could be distinctly heard. The extraordinary 
and superfluous space occasioned such an undulation 
from the voice of every actor, that generally what they 
said sounded like the gabbling of so many people in 
the lofty aisles of a cathedral. The tone of a trumpet, 
or the swell of a musical voice, might be sweetened by 
it ; but the articulate sounds of a speaking voice were 
drowned by the hollow reverberations of one word upon 
another. 'Tis true, the spectators were struck with 
surprise and wonder at the magnificent appearance the 
house displayed on every way they turned their eyes. 
The ceiling over the orchestra was a semi-oval arch, 
that sprung fifteen feet higher from above the cornice. 
The ceiling over the pit, too, was still more raised ; 
being one level line from the highest, back part of the 
upper gallery, to the front of the stage. The front 
boxes were a continued semicircle to the bare walls of 
.the house on each side ; and the effect altogether was 
truly surprising. In the course of two or three years, the 
ceilings over both the orchestra and pit were lowered ; 
and instead of the semi-oval arch, that over the or- 
chestra was made flat, which greatly improved the 
hearing. Not long before, the Italian Opera began first 
to steal into England ; but in as rude a disguise, and 
unlike itself, as possible, in a lame, hobbling translation 



APPENDIX. 339 

into our own language ; with false quantities, or metre 
out of measure, to its original notes ; sung by our own 
unskilful voices, with graces misapplied to almost every 
sentiment, and with action lifeless and unmeaning 
through every character. The first Italian performer 
that made any distinguished figure in it, was Valtntini, 
a true sensible singer at that time, but of a throat too 
weak to sustain those melodious warblings for which 
the fairer sex have since idolized his successors. To 
strike in, therefore, with this prevailing novelty, Sir 
John Vanbrugh and Mr. Congreve opened their new 
Haymarket Theatre, on Easter Monday, April 9th, 
1705, with Signer Giacomo Greber's Loves of Ergasto, 
set to Italian music ; a prologue by Mrs. Bracegirdle, 
written by Garth : and plays commenced by the Lin- 
coln's Inn Fields' company under Betterton, who had 
closed the latter theatre with the Virtuoso, and Acis 
and Galatea, on March 31st. They acted every evening 
till 29th June ; but their short career evidently wanted 
attraction. On the 25th, 27th, and 29th June, Love 
for Love was acted wholly by women. The company 
returned to Lincoln's Inn Fields, and performed there 
during July, and closed the season on the 14th of 
August. The Triumph of Love was acted about five 
nights, by foreigners, without success ; and plays were 
then performed, the first new. piece being the Conquest 
of Spain. The following Oct. re-opened by Vanbrugh 
only, with a new comedy by him, called the Confede- 
racy ; in the company were Betterton, Leigh, Booth, 



340 APPENDIX. 

Pinkethman, Dogget, Pack, Mrs. Porter, Mrs. Brace- 
girdle, &c. They closed Aug. 23 with the London 
Cuckolds. Several new plays produced. 

1706. Betterton's company opened with the Spanish 
Friar, Oct. 15th. The temporary popularity and 
favouritism for this house is shewn by the circum- 
stance, that at the Dorset Gardens Theatre the opening 
for the season was announced, as '* By the deserted 
company of Comedians of the Theatre Royal ; at the 
Queen's Theatre in Dorset Gardens, on Thursday next, 
the 24th of October, will be acted a comedy called the 
Recruiting Officer : in which they pray there may be 
singing by Mrs. Tofts, in English and Italian, and some 
dancing, &c." And the prologue spoken by Mrs. Babb, 
her first appearance there, commences, 

Bless me ! an audience here ! I'm all surprise ! 
Boxes ! Pit ! ! Galleries ! ! ! I can't believe my eyes ! 
Sure I'm mistaken how strange a thing is this, 
When all my thoughts were nothing but dismiss : 
How could ye give one idle night away, } 

And from Haymarket's dazzling fabric stray, > 

Unless new faces bring ye to our play ? j 

First view, then bid, and if we should deny, ~\ 

Then with a smile and scornful air you'll cry, \> 

Away to t'other house, we know who'll there comply. J 

The company from Dorset Garden Theatre com- 
menced at Drury Lane the 30th November, with the 
play of the Recruiting Officer, which was played same 
night at this house Kite, by Mr. Pack ; while their 



APPENDIX. 341 

rivals announced in the bills, " Note. The true Serjeant 
Kite is performed at the Theatre Royal Drury Lane*." 
Whatever appearances were, the patronage of the 
public was not very lucrative. As early in the follow- 
ing year as the 14th January, there was acted Julius 
Caesar by subscription ; " For the encouragement of 
the comedians acting at the Haymarket, and to enable 
them to keep the diversion of plays under a separate 
interest from operas." To boxes and pit, only sub- 
scribers admitted. First gallery 2s. ; the upper 1*. 
This performance repeated 15th, and other subscription 
nights followed. The name of Mrs. Bracegirdle does 
not appear in the bills after Feb. 20th. Season closed 
August 22nd, 1707. Opened October llth; closed 
with the tragedy of Macbeth, for the benefit of Mr. 
Wilks, 10th January, 1708 ; when the company at 
the Queen's Theatre and Drury Lane united. Operas 
were attempted, part in Italian, and part in English ; 
400 tickets issued at 105. 6d. to pit and boxes, the 
gallery 5s. upper gallery 2s. They commenced 14th 
January, 1708, and plays acted twice a week : dancing 
was sometimes added. M'Swiney was the manager. 
Concluded 28th May. Operas recommenced twice a 
week 14th December, when Nicolini made his first 
appearance in England. He sung in Italian, the others 
in English. The prices varied: boxes 15s. 10s. 6d. 

The original cast of the characters was : Plume, Wilks ; 
Brazen, Cibber; Kite, Estcourt; Melinda, Mrs. Rogers; and 
Silvia, Mrs. Oldfield. 



342 APPENDIX. 

and 8s. ; pit os.; gallery 2s. 6d. ; upper gallery 1$. 6d. 
Season ended 20th May. 1709. Eetterton's company 
returned here, and opened with Othello, Sept. 15th; 
and as an auxiliary attraction, Mr. Higgins, the posture- 
man from Holland, exhibited between the acts*. 
The season closed 13th June, 1710, with the Careless 
Husband. Operas were performed twice a week, 
under the proprietorship of Aaron Hill, who rented 
the theatre at 600/. a year. Among the new produc- 
tions was the opera of Thomyris, conducted by the 
newly-arrived Swiss Count (John James Heidegger), 
who by that production alone was " a gainer of five 

* " Advertisement. The surprising Mr. Higgins, posture- 
master, that lately performed in the Queen's Theatre Royal 
in the Haymarket, now performs at the Rummer, over against 
Bow-lane-end in Cheapside, the same with several other won- 
derful postures, that he had not time to perform between the 
acts j beginning exactly at six every evening during his short 
stay in the city. Price eighteen-pence the first seats, and 
twelve-pence the back seats." Bagford's Papers. 

Another demi-advertisement exhibits a curious specimen of 
the nuisance of the footmen in the gallery during the per- 
formance. " Dropt, near the playhouse in the Hayraaiket, a 
bundle of horse-whips, designed to belabour the footmen in the 
upper gallery, who almost every night this winter have made 
such an intolerable disturbance, that the players could not be 
heard, and their masters were forced to hiss 'em into silence. 
Whoever has taken up the said whips, is desired to leave 'em 
with my Lord Rake's porter, several noblemen resolving to 
exercise 'em on their backs, the next frosty morning." Femals 
Tatler, 9th December, 1709. 



APPENDIX. 343 

hundred guineas." Almahide was the first regular 
opera, "consisting of songs, both in Italian and English, 
adapted to Italian airs ; the latter (says Sir J. Hawkins) 
were sung by Dogget the comedian." In July and 
August the summer company performed plays for a few 
nights. It opened for the winter season, 4th October, 
with the Recruiting Officer, under the management of 
M c Swiney. Performers : Messieurs Wilks, Booth, 
Gibber, Estcourt, Mills, Gibbs, Bullock, Pinkethman ; 
Mesdames Oldfield, Porter, Rogers, and Bicknell. 
This company, on the 18th November following, 
removed to Drury Lane Theatre. The operas com- 
menced November 22nd, with Hydaspes, under the 
direction of A. Hill, and ended 2nd June, 1711, with 
Rinaldo, set by Handel, and of superior merit " over 
every representation of this nature (says Hawkins) that 
till then had been exhibited in England*." The Italian 
Opera, properly so called (says the same authority), 
was established in the year 1710, when Rinaldo was 
performed at the Haymarketf. Playhouses were not 
then open on Wednesdays or Saturdays. The winter 
season commenced 10th November, with Almahide, the 
character of Almanzor by Mrs. Barbier. Hour of 
performance six o'clock. The same manager assisted 
by Heidegger. Boxes 8s. pit 5s. galleries 2s. 6d. and 
Is. Gd. The season ended 25th June, 1712, with 



* Hawkins* Hist, of Music, vol. v. p. 142. 
t Hawkins' Hist, of Music, vol. v. p. 171, 



844 APPENDIX. 

Calypso and Telemachus. Recommenced 12th Novem- 
ber, with the Triumphs of Love, and continued 
Wednesdays and Saturdays through the season. On 
the 22nd November was produced the Faithful Shepherd, 
with music by Handel. The principal performers were 
Signor Car. Valeriano Pellengrini (first appearance), 
Signer Valentino Urbani, Signora Pilotti Schiavonetti, 
Signora Margarita Dell' Epine, Mrs. Barbier, and Mr. 
Leveridge ; who all sung in Italian. The scenes were 
new, representing Arcadia ; but the habits were old. 
It was a short opera, and on second representation the 
boxes were raised to half a guinea. An opera called 
Dorinda was next produced ; but neither that nor the 
Faithful Shepherd, had sufficient attraction to obtain full 
houses. On the 3rd January, 1713, was performed a 
tragic opera, with heroic habits, four new scenes, and 
other costly decorations, called Theseus, with music by 
Handel. M c Swiney, the manager, having ineffectually 
tried to obtain a subscription for six nights, gave out 
tickets for two nights only ; laying the boxes and pit 
into one ; and the house was very full at ach per- 
formance After the second night M c Swiney absented 
himself without paying the singers' salaries, and leaving 
the habits and the scenes unpaid for. This circum- 
stance created considerable confusion among the singers, 
who finally resolved to go on with the opera on their 
own account, dividing the gain amongst them, under 
the superintendence of Monsieur John James Heidegger. 
On 1 7th January, Theseus repeated at the usual prices; 



APPENDIX. 345 

and house much fuller than on preceding night. A 
subscription for six nights, of ten guineas, entitling the 
subscriber to three tickets for each night, the whole 
number limited to 400 a night, was raised for a new 
opera called Ernelinda*. It is probable, in this opera 
first appeared La Signora Vittoria Albergotti, an admired 
Romana. The first performance was on 26th February, 
and to a crowded house during the subscription nights ; 
the Due d'Aumont, the French Ambassador, being 
present at each representation. On Wednesday, the 
15th April, the opera of Theseus was obliged to be 
deferred from the want of sufficient support, and per- 
formed on the Saturday following, to only a very thin 
house. The regular season closed 15th May, with 
Theseus, for the benefit of Mr. Handel, as the composer. 
The next season commenced, 9th Jan. 1714, with 
Dorinda ; and on the 27th was produced a new opera 
called Croesus, in which (we speak on the authority of a 
contemporary manuscript) there first appeared on the 
stage the celebrated Mrs. Anastasia Robinson, afterwards 

* The opera of Ernelinda, performed during the season 1713, 
has a dedication prefixed from " John James Heidegger," to 
Richard, Viscount Lonsdale, Baron Lowther, imploring his pro- 
tection " at a time when we labour under so many unhappy 
circumstances." It was also hoped " there are many who will 
concur with your Lordship's sentiments, and think themselves 
concerned to promote so noble a diversion, a diversion which 
most foreign states think it their interest to support. By these 
means, [it is added] we may retrieve the reputation of our 
affairs, and in a short time rival the stnge of Italy." 

Q5 



846 APPENDIX. 

Countess of Peterborough. Boxes and pit half a guinea, 
and house full. During Lent, the opera performed on a 
Thursday, in consequence of Queen Anne usually having 
a withdrawing-room and playing basset every Tuesday 
evening. Performances concluded 23rd June with 
Ernelinda, at the request of the Duchess of Shrewsbury, 
lately arrived from Ireland. The following season 
commenced with the opera of Arminius, and, as by 
command, the performance to begin at five o'clock. It 
was also advertised : " Whereas, by the frequent calling 
for the songs over again, the operas have been too 
tedious ; therefore the singers are forbid to sing any 
song above once, and it is hoped nobody will call for 
'em, or take it ill when not obeyed." Some new per- 
formers had been obtained, who met with little encou- 
ragement, and the presence of the Prince and Princess 
of Wales not sufficient to fill the house. In December, 
an auxiliary attraction was adopted, in introducing 
dancing by Mrs. Santlow. On July 23, 1715, the opera 
of Hydaspes (the King present,) terminated the season, 
in consequence, it was said, of the Rebellion. The state 
of public affairs is supposed to have had considerable 
influence over public amusements, and the nights of the 
opera were in consequence very irregular ; however, we 
believe operas were performed early in December : and 
on the 1st February, 1716, by command of the King, 
Lucius Verus. The principal singer was Signor Nicolini 
Grimaldi, returned from Italy. On the 16th February, 
Amadis produced, in which Mrs. Robinson took a part ; 



APPENDIX. 347 

and season ended with same performance, on the 12th 
July following. The next season commenced December 
8th, with Cleartes, and dancing by Monsieur Salle and 
Mademoiselle Salle, the two children first time on this 
stage; and ended the 29th June, 1717*, with Titus 
Manlius. Servants were then allowed to keep places in 
the boxes. Several balls and masquerades given during 
the winter of 171 7-1 Sf; and a concert for the benefit 

* A strong effort was made this season at Lincoln's Inn Fields 
Theatre to establish English operas. The opera of Camilla, by 
M c Swiney, first performed at Drury Lane, 20th March, 1706, 
was revived in January 1717, for that purpose, and acted twice 
a week for seven times, to the most productive houses of that 
season. On the 26th January it was dismissed, by reason of 
Mrs. Barbier being sick ; but repeated occasionally afterwards. 
Camilla was again revived 19th November, 1726, pit and boxes 
at 5s. each, and the receipt at first night 163/. 3s. Gd. Other 
lucrative nights same season, which contradicts Sir J. Hawkins, 
who says, " it did not succeed." Thorny ris was not, as he 
supposes, performed. 

t The promptness of Mr. Heidegger in providing amusement 
for the nobility and gentry is well known. The following is a 
description of a subscription masquerade at the Opera House, 
allowed to be more magnificent than has been known in Italy, 
Venice, or any other countries. 

" The room (says the writer) is exceedingly large, beautifully 
adorned, and illuminated with 500 wax lights; on the sides are 
divers beaufets, over which is written the several wines therein 
contained, as Canary, Burgundy, Champagne, Rhenish, &c. 
each most excellent in its kind ; of which all are at liberty to 
drink what they please ; with large services of all sorts of 
sweetmeats. There are also two sets of music, at due distance 



348 APPENDIX- 

of Mrs. Robinson, 15th March, 1718. This season m> 
operas performed. 1719. Balls continued under the 
direction of Heidegger. 1720. During the early months 
of this year, French comedians, under Royal patronage, 
performed about nine nights ; their last performance the 
29th March, Prices of admission : Stage 7*. 6d. boxes 

from each other, performed by very good hands. By the vast 
variety of dresses (many of them very rich) you would fancy it a 
congress of the principal persons of all nations in the world, as 
Turks, Italians, Indians, Polanders, Spaniards, Venetians, &c. 
There is an absolute freedom of speech, without the least 
offence given thereby ; while all appear better bred than to offer 
at any thing profane, rude, or immodest, but wit incessantly 
flashes about in repartees, honour, and good humour, and all 
kinds of pleasantry. There was also the groom porter's office, 
where all play that please ; while heaps of guineas pass about, 
with so little concern in the losers, that they are not to be 
distinguished from the winners. Nor does it add a little to the 
beauty of the entertainment, to see the generality of the mas- 
queraders behave themselves agreeable to their several habits. 
The number, when I was there on Tuesday, last week, was 
computed at 700, with some files of musquetiers at hand, for the 
preventing any disturbance which might happen by quarrels, &c. 
so frequent in. Venice, Italy, and other countries, on such 
entertainments. At eleven o'clock a person gives notice that 
supper is ready, when the company pass into another large room, 
where a noble cold entertainment is prepared, suitable to all the 
rest ; the whole diversion continuing from nine .o'clock till seven 
next morning. In short, the whole ball was sufficiently illus- 
trious, in every article of it, for the greatest prince to give on the 
most extraordinary occasion." Mist's Weekly Journal^ Feb. 15 r 
1718* 



APPENDIX. 

55. pit 3*. gal. 2s. Operas commenced on the 5th April ; 
and the French company recommenced on the 29th. 
Both companies played respectively two nights a week, 
the French company closing the 1 7th, and the opera the 
22nd June, 1720. On the 26th May, to the opera of 
Numitor, it was announced, "To be admitted on the 
stage, one guinea." In this year 5,000/. was subscribed 
by the nobility, (according to Sir John Hawkins) to 
establish the opera, of which sum His Majesty George I. 
gave 1000/. Handel was appointed director, and the 
performance styled The Royal Academy of Music. 
Governor, the Duke of Newcastle ; deputy-governor, 
Lord Bingley ; the Dukes of Portland and Queensbery, 
and other noblemen and gentlemen, directors. Handel 
went to Italy to engage performers, and Signora 
Durastanti appeared in the summer months of this year. 
The winter season commenced 10th December with 
Astartus, in which first appeared Signer Francesco 
Benardi, better known as Senesino, who was engaged 
to supply the want of Nicolini. Another popular opera, 
this season, was Arsaces ; and the public intimation was 
given, that if the company in the gallery did not behave 
better, it would be shut up. Next season commenced, 
Wednesday, November 1st, 1721, with the opera of 
Arsaces. Advertisement adds : " Pit and Boxes to be 
put together, alid no person to be admitted without 
tickets, which will be delivered this day at Mrs. White's 
chocolate-house, in St. James's Street, at half-a-guinea 
each. N.B. Four hundred tickets will be delivered - f , 



850 APPENDIX. 

and after they are disposed of, no person whatever will 
be admitted for money." 1722. The winter season 
commenced Oct. 31, with Mutius Scaevola, and the 
notice renewed, that " if any further disturbance in the 
footmen's gallery takes place, it will be shut up*." 
Towards the close of the year appeared, in Ottone, the 
celebrated Signora Francesca Cuzzoni, who was univer- 
sally admired. Durastanti, Senesino, and Mrs. Robinson, 
also sang in the same opera. The season ended with 
Flavius, 17th June, 1723. During this season two 
ridottos were given, which, from the opposition of the 
magistrates, were not further repeated. There was 
announced one guinea admission to the practices of the 
opera. And in January was advertised : " By order of 
several persons of quality : at the long room at the 
Opera House in the Haymarket, the 3 1st January, will 
be Un passo Tempo, with agreeable entertainments for 
ladies and gentlemen. Tickets to be had at the said 
long room, at 55. each." In December the house opened 
with II Vespasiano, the manager still retaining the same 
powerful singers, and continued to 13th June, 1724, 
when the season ended with Aquilius ; and Durastanti 
took formal leave, on her return to Italy. With Tamerlano, 
supported by Cuzzoni and Senesino, the following season 
commenced 3 1 st October, when the number of subscribers 
appears not to have exceeded 340. The opera of 

* At commencement of this season it appears that the com- 
mon number of 400 tickets, usually issued each night, was 
reduced to 350. 



APPENDIX. 851 

Rodalinda, music by Handel ; and short opera of Elpidia, 
produced in May 1725, music by Signer Leonardo 
Vicini, were both well received, and season closed with 
the last on the 1 9th of June. Elpidia was also performed 
on opening the 30th November following, for the season, 
which ended with Alessandro on the 7th June, 1726, 
when Senesino returned to Italy. Tickets, hitherto sold 
only at White's chocolate-house, were to be had at the 
office of the theatre. A military guard was appointed, 
to prevent irregularity and disorder happening at the 
balls. On September 28th, house opened with an Italian 
company of comedians, as by His Majesty's command, 
with indifferent success, performing about twelve nights 
during September and October. Price 4s. and 2s. 
On January 7th, 1727, season commenced with Lucius 
Verus. Senesino then returned, and Faustini and Cuz- 
zoni still engaged. The opera of Admetus, music by 
Handel, first performed 21st January, and repeated 
above sixteen nights, the house being fuller each night 
than was ever known before for so long a period. 
House closed June 6*, with Astyanax. About the 

* About this period arose the long, violent, but petty and 
ridiculous altercation, between the rival heroines Cnzzoni, and 
Faustini, and their respective fashionable supporters, for the 
useless right of precedence. It was said, by a writer in the 
Craftsman, u The adherents on both sides are very numerous ; 
Faustinas are the most powerful, but Cuzzoni's the most 
judicious." The same writer remarks, " The case, it seems, 
stands thus : The right of possession is certainly in Cuzzoni, 



352 



APPENDIX. 



middle of September following, again opened, the three 
singers continuing, and their Majesties often there. In 
November was produced King Richard I. ; and in Fe- 

which she hath enjoyed, without molestation, for some years, and 
is confirmed to her by divers treaties between her and the 
Academy. Faustini, on the other hand, insists that Cuzzoni hath 
consented and promised to yield up that right to her, by a secret 
stipulation under her own hand, which she is ready to produce. 
Cuzzoni seems to prevaricate a little in this affair ; for, as she 
cannot well deny her own hand-writing, she would persuade the 
world that it is only a sort of a promise ; or, as she terms it 
amongst her friends, an artful finesse and expedient to make 
Faustini easy for the present." Sir John Hawkins tells us, 
" The directors, greatly troubled with this dispute, and foreseeing 
the probable consequences of it, fell upon an odd expedient to 
determine it. The time for a new contract with each of these 
singers was at hand, and they agreed among themselves to give, 
as salary to Faustini, one guinea a year more than to her rival. 
Lady Pembroke and some others, the friends of CUzzoni, 
hearing this, made her swear upon the Holy Gospels never td 
take less than Faustini ; and the directors continuing firm in 
their resolution not to give her quite so much, Cuzzoni found 
herself ensnared by her oath, into the necessity of quitting the 
kingdom. This she did at the end of the following season, when 
her engagement probably terminated ; and Faustini, as well as 
Senesino, also quitted England at the same period." Etiquette 
and precedence in the opera establishment, is allowed to an 
absurd extent. We write in 1822, and know if Signora A. 
announces to the manager she is ill (or fancies so,) and cannot 
(or will not) perform, and he obtains a substitute in Signora B. ; 
after that preliminary is arranged, the express permission of 
Signora A. must be got, to permit Signora B.'s appearance, by 
the manager, before he dare venture to announce the alteration. 



APPENDIX. 35$ 

bruary 1728, Siroes, both new operas, composed by 
Handel. At the close of the season, Fanstini, Cuzzoni, 
and Senesino, went to Italy, by which no operas were 
performed during the following winter and spring of 
1728-9. Some balls and assemblies, as usual. In 
November 1729, the house opened with a new com- 
pany ; the chief singer, Signora Strada del Po. Before 
the commencement of this season, we believe, the 
Academy of Music, and all its engagements, were 
dissolved ; and Handel remained sole conductor of the 
opera. 1 730. November 3rd, the opera of Scipio per- 
formed, and continued for four nights ; their Majesties 
present at each performance. Senesino then returned. 
Ended Saturday, 29th May, 1731. Next season com- 
menced in November, with Porus : and in February 
1732, was produced, Sosarmes, music by Handel, which 
brought crowded houses. On May 2nd, the oratorio of 
Esther*; and, June 10th, the serenata of Acis and 
Galatea. These performances were in English, by the 
Italian performers, who appeared in a kind of gallery. 
The public were to expect " no action on the stage ; 
but the scene (in the latter piece) to represent, in a pic- 
turesque manner, a rural prospect, with rocks, groves, 

* Their Majesties, the Prince of Wales, and the three elder 
Princesses, were present on the first night of Esther. It was 
announced for the following Saturday, with notice, " That if 
there are any tickets which could not be made use of on Tuesday 
last, the money will either be returned for the same, on sending 
them to the office in the Haymarket next Saturday, or they will 
be exchanged for other tickets for that day." 



354 APPENDIX. 

fountains, and grottos : amongst which to be disposed A 
chorus of nymphs and shepherds ; habits and every 
other decoration suited to the subject." The per- 
formance repeated six nights, to very full houses ; pit 
and boxes put together ; and no person admitted with- 
out tickets, at 10s. 6d. each. Gallery, 55. A pastoral 
entertainment, on June 24th, for the benefit of Signer 
Bonancini, when the Queen and three of the Princesses 
were present, we believe, ended that season. The 
serious opera of Cato was performed Saturday, 4th No- 
vember following, by command of their Majesties, 
wherein Signora Celeste Gismonda first appeared to a 
full house. 

In January 1733, was produced Orlando Furioso, 
music by Handel. This was got up with particular 
magnificence ; dresses and scenery being all new. Sea- 
son ended in June. On Tuesday, 30th October, being 
the King's birth-day, the house opened with Semira- 
mis, in which, we believe, Durastanti appeared, on her 
return to England. The new opera of Ariadne in Crete 
was produced in January 1734, in which Signer Cares- 
tino sung surprisingly well. On the 1 8th April, Pastor 
Fido performed, composed by Handel, who, in conse- 
quence of his refusing to compose for Senesino, had 
this and two following seasons to contend with the nobi- 
lity and gentry who patronised and wished to support 
his rival*. 1735-7. During these years, operas, 

* The house in Portugal Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields, then 
belonging to Messrs. J. and C. M. Rich, was opened 29th 



APPENDIX. 355 

under the direction of Handel ; and balls, of Heidegger. 
Italian operas were also given at Covent Garden Theatre, 
in part of the seasons, instead of plays. 1737-8. The 
winter season commenced with oratorios by Handel. 
About twelve given ; and prices 105. 6d. and 5s. Balls, 
as usual. 1739-40. No opera at this house during 
these years. Balls, assemblies, and one benefit concert. 
Italian operas were performed at the Little Theatre, 
Haymarket; and Lincoln's Inn Fields Theatre was 
occasionally opened by Handel, with Alexander's Feast, 
&c. &c/ 

1 741 . Operas again commenced in October by Lord 
Middlesex, who acted as sole director, supported by 
noblemen. Dancing formed a part of each evening's 
amusement. Admission 10$. 6d. and 5s. This con- 
tinued during the season, without the auxiliary balls. 
1742. Opened in November, with balls only during 
this season. 1743. Open as before. Balls, and two 
oratorios in Passion Week of 1 744. Opened in No- 
vember following with oratorios by Handel, for twenty- 
four nights, by subscription ; to be performed on Satur- 
day nights till Lent, and then Wednesdays and Fridays. 
For want of patronage, only sixteen took place. Balls 

December, 1733, with the Italian opera of Ariadne in Naxus, 
music by Porpora. The company principally consisted of Signor 
Senesino, Signor Montagna, and Signoras Cuzzoni, Celeste, 
Bertolli, and Sagatti. The performance was nearly regular twice 
a week, for fifty-five nights, ending the season, on 15th June, 
1734, with jEneas, by command of His Majesty. 



356 APPENDIX. 

occasionally. About eight or ten operas at the Little 
Theatre, Haymarket, under the conduct of Geminiani. 

1746. The House opened with operas in January. 
Balls as usual. 1747. In this season the opera was 
supported by subscriptions often nights each. 1 747-48. 
Operas on Saturdays only, till February, with balls 
occasionally. 1748. Opened, in November, with a 
comic opera, supposed the first Italian one ever exhi- 
bited: Dr. Crosa conductor. 105. 6d. and 5s. 1749. 
Season continued with balls as usual. 1 750. Open for 
operas from January to Easter only. 1751. Opened 
in January ; but, after two performances, operas were 
removed to the Little Theatre opposite. 1752. Dur- 
ing the winter, only balls. 1753. In this season con- 
certs and balls. Opened with operas, under Van- 
neschi, as director, in November. Price 10*. 6d. and 
5s. Half-price 6s. Balls occasionally. No servants 
admitted in footmen's gallery but those attending their 
masters and mistresses. 1 754. Opened in November, 
under the same direction, with balls as usual. 1755. 
Opened in November, with like entertainments. 
1756-57. In this season the opera and balls were con- 
ducted by Signora Mingotti, assisted by Giardini. A 
strong appeal was made to the nobility, by Signora 
Mingotti, for subscriptions in support of the opera. 
1758. Opened 7th January with Demetrio. Conti- 
nued by Vanneschi. Closed, 5th June, with the same 
opera. 1759. Opened, 16th December, with De- 
metrio : Tenducci first appeared. Closed with Farnace, 



APPENDIX. 357 

the 22nd June following. Opened, 13th November, 
with Vologeso; and season ended with Erginda, on 
7th June. 1760. In August, Signora Mattei, who, 
under the gracious auspices of the nobility and gentry, 
had undertaken the direction of the serious operas and 
burlettas, announced her ability to keep promise, hav- 
ing engaged " for the serious operas, Signora Mattei ; 
Signer Philippo Elisi, the first singer in Italy; Signor 
Gaetano Quilice, tenor ; Signora Angiola Calori, second 
woman ; Signor Giovanni Sorbelloni, second man ; a 
new singer for the lowest character. For the bur- 
lettas : Signora Saganini, the first female comic character, 
and the most famous in Italy ; Signor Gaetano Quilice, 
first man ; Signora Eleardi, second woman ; Signor 
Paganini, second man ; Signor N. N., third man. (Si- 
gnora Angiola Calori, Signor Giovanni Sorbelloni, to 
perform the serious parts in the burlettas.) Dancers : 
Mademoiselle Asselin, first woman dancer; Monsieur 
Gherardi, first dancer (of the men), and ballet-master ; 
famous (both in serious and comic) as well for his in- 
vention, as for execution in dancing. There will also 
be other comic dancers and figurers, both for the serious 
operas and burlettas." The house opened in No- 
vember ; and on the 22nd of that month was produced, 
II Mondo nella Luna, by Signor Galluppi. The season 
closed with Arianne e Teseo, on the 7th June, 1761. 
In September, the season commenced with two sere- 
natas by Signor Cocchi, given in honour of the royal 
nuptials of our late venerated Sovereign and Queen. 



358 APPENDIX. 

1762. Commenced with Alessandro, 13th October; 
and concluded with Arianne e Teseo, the 5th June, 
1763. Opened again November 1,3th, with II Tutore e 
la Pupilla, by command of their Majesties, and closed 
in June 1764, with the opera Zanaida. In May it was 
announced, " As Signora Mattei leaves England at the 
end of this season, and Mr. Crawford intends to quit 
the management, all the dresses and other articles be- 
longing to him and Signora Mattei will be sold." 
Opened with Cleonice, 26th November, under manage- 
ment of Signor Giardini, and closed with Enea e Lavinia, 
on 16th June, 1765. Opened with Ezio, 24th No- 
vember, and closed with Solimano, on 22nd June, 1766, 
under the management of Messrs. Crawford, Vincent, 
and Gordon. Opened with Eumenes, 23rd November, 
and closed with Pelopida, 14th June, 1767*. During 
the summer, Mr. Foote having strengthened his com- 
pany with the addition of Mr. Barry, Mr. Lee, and Mrs. 
Dancer, acted plays here for twenty-one nights, between 
8th August and 19th September. Opened, October 
27, with Tigrane, same firm as last year ; and closed 
30th June, 1768. On October 30, a splendid mas- 
querade, given by the King of Denmark, when the bril- 
liancy of the dresses and profusion of diamonds worn 
by the nobility exceeded in magnificence all contem- 

* June 20, 1767. In January of that year, the oratorio of 
Saul, with music by Arnold, was performed here, of which it 
was said, that " nothing, since Mr. Handel's time, had appeared 
in that species of composition equal to it." 

3 



APPENDIX. 359 

porary entertainments. The stage is said to have been 
lined with crimson velvet, with six rooms appropriated 
for supper, where a profusion of plate appeared. On 
the 12th October, the serious opera of Arianne e Teseo, 
performed by desire of the King of Denmark, and occa- 
sional performance until the season commenced on 5th 
November. Vincent and Gordon the directors. 
1769-72. During these seasons, the opera appears to 
have been conducted under the same management, but 
conjointly with Mr. Crawford, as Messrs. Crawford 
and Co. 1772. Opened in November, with operas. 
In May 1773, the whole, under management of Messrs. 
Yates and Brookes, who purchased at the sum of 7,400/. ; 
expecting to obtain permission to act plays, with operas 
alternately. This scheme refused by the Lord Cham- 
berlain. 1773. Opened, November 29, with an ex- 
ordium by the manager, Yates, and Lucio Verio, dancer. 
1774-7. Messrs. Yates and Co. conductors. At 
Midsummer, 1778, Mr. Sheridan and Mr. Harris be- 
came joint purchasers of the Opera House, at the price 
of 22,000/. subject to the yearly rent of 1,270/. This 
high appreciation of the property is supposed to have 
been given in expectation of the possibility of acting 
English pieces, under the authority of the dormant 
patent in the possession of Mr. Harris. The house 
opened, as usual, with an opera, 24th November, under 
the direction of Mons. Le Texier. At the end of the 
season 1778-9, in consequence of a very alarming 
balance appearing against the property, Mr. Harris 



860 APPENDIX. 

became desirous of parting with his share, and assigned 
the same to Mr. Sheridan, upon his personal request, 
in preference to Mr. Gallini, who was also desirous to 
become a purchaser, and offered to pay down a sum. 
exceeding the original price. Mr. Sheridan shortly 
afterwards disposed of the whole concern to Mr. Taylor. 
On 27th November, advertised that Mons. Le Texier 
was discharged, and Mr. Crawford (assisted by a 
gentleman who was manager thirty years) appointed. 

1780. Opened 24th November. Director as before. 
1 781 . Opened 1 7th November. Forty renters' shares 
created for fifteen years, at 200 guineas each, and also 
free admissions offered at 207. a year each. 1782. 
Opened 2nd November. The theatre altered by Novo- 
sielski, who shaped the flat sides to form a horse-shoe ; 
the boxes increased to ninety-nine, the upper gallery in 
front only, but the crown-gallery all round ; with three 
rows of boxes. May 17th, 1783, the theatre closed 
on account of the state of its affairs. Mr. Taylor (the 
manager's) creditors called together, and the whole 
property put up, under the authority of the slieriff, 
for sale. Some concerts afterwards, and the Pantheon 
opened for the benefit of the performers, whose salaries 
had not been paid. In June, Gallini and Harris took 
possession, under the sheriff, for 28,000/. September 
1st, Crawford appointed manager and treasurer, under 
trustees. December 2nd, Gallini advertised that he 
was sole proprietor and director. December 3rd, ad- 
vertised that Gallini was only mortgagee for 4,170/. 



APPENDIX. 361 

Opened again, 2nd December. In February 1 781, trus- 
tees advertised that Crawford was appointed manager 
by the Court of King's Bench. No opera after Easter, 
except a few benefits. 1785. September 17th, re- 
ceiver appointed by Court of Chancery. November 
27th, Gallini's demand settled by Court of Chancery, 
and paid off by trustees. December 18th, opened for 
the season. August 16th, advertisement from Lord 
Chamberlain's office, that the opera having been im- 
properly conducted, he refuses to put it into other hands, 
and intends to have it under his direction. Operas at 
the Haymarket Theatre ; the profits to discharge the 
debts of the opera- concerns. August 17th, all disputes 
settled; Gallini again manager. September 23rd, no 
licence to be granted by the Chamberlain, until he was 
satisfied the performers, &c. would be paid. 17815. 
Opened 23rd January ; Gallini manager. The follow- 
ing season opened 23rd December. 1787. Opened 
8th December, under the same manager, for season of 
1787-8. Opened 9th January; Gallini manager, and 
Mr. Taylor proprietor. The theatre burnt 17th June, 
between ten and eleven in the evening. The standing 
rent was 1,270/. An advertisement from Gallini 
offered 300/. reward to discover supposed person who 
set fire to the Opera House. Another stated accident 
not from fireworks, as reported. The damages com- 
puted at 70,000/. Vanbrugh's relatives received 8007. 
a year. His late Majesty interfered to prevent the 
Opera House from being rebuilt on another spot of 

VOL. II. 11 



362 APPENDIX. 

ground, as intended. On June 27th, operas com- 
menced for a few nights at Covent Garden, at opera 
prices. 

Operas commenced at the Little Theatre, Hay- 
market, 9th January, 1790. Particular newspapers at 
this period contained most plausible statements and 
minute description of an intended Opera House, as to 
be erected by R. B. O'Reilly, who had obtained an 
interest, it was considered, by purchase of the claim of 
the family of Vanbrugh, by Leicester Fields, about the 
old site of the Prince of Wales's palace, afterwards the 
repository of Sir Ashton Lever's museum. April 9th, 
O'Reilly advertised he had obtained a patent for a new 
opera, in Leicester Square, and no other patent in 
existence. Operas closed at the Haymarket, 12th 
June ; recommenced at Covent Garden, loth June, and 
continued till 17th July. July 10th, O'Reilly obtained 
the Lord Chamberlain's licence ; and on 4th October, 
he advertised to open the Pantheon as an Opera House, 
early after Christinas. In the mean time, by the exer- 
tion of Mr. Taylor, on 3rd April, 1790, foundation-stone 
of the new theatre laid by the Earl of Buckingham- 
shire*. March 16th, 1791, rehearsal for the sub- 

* On one side the stone was inscribed : " The King's The- 
atre, iii the Haymarket, tirst built in the year A.D. 1703." On 
the other side: " But unfortunately destroyed by fire, A. D. 
1789." On another side : " PrevalebitJustitia." And upon the 
lop : " This is the first stone of the new Opera House ; laid on 
the 3rd of April, A.D. 1790 ; by the Night Honourable John Ho- 



APPENDIX. 363 

scribers announced ; previous to this, several pro and 
con statements, from Taylor and O'Reilly, published 
in the daily papers. The Pantheon opened in Fe- 
bruary with operas, and was called the King's Theatre. 
Taylor was announced as proprietor of Opera House, 
and Novosielski the architect. A licence could not be 
obtained to open the new house ; and on application to 
the Lord Chamberlain, whether it could not be opened 
on Harris's dormant patent, the Lord Chamberlain 
briefly remarked, it was not in his province to answer 
that question. After several rehearsals, Taylor adver- 
tised, that all applications for a licence having been 
refused by the Lord Chamberlain, he having granted 
another, the opera could not open: the theatre cost 
60,000/. and that only 8000/. was insured; and the 
house had been established eighty-seven years, on 
ground leased by the Crown. March 26th, the Opera 
House opened with music and dancing, and continued 
such diversions on the regular opera nights, till July 
ID. The Drury Lane company opened this theatre 
September 22nd, and closed 16th June, 1792. Operas 

bart, Earl of Buckinghamshire. Auclor prctiosafacit" A singular 
pamphlet, published in 1818, as a Review of this Theatre, from 
the Period described by the Enterpriser, has the following motto, 
allusive to the period : " When I stood upon the m:Ung ruins, 
and laid the foundation-stone, I had nothing in my pockets but 
both my hands, and I would have given the world for one 
guinea." It was advertised in July, as reduced "to a certainty its 
being completely fit for public representation at Christmasnexl." 



864 APPENDIX. 

at the Pantheon until it was burnt down, 1 4th January, 
1792; and company removed to the Little Theatre, 
Haymarket. 

1793. September 15th, Drury Lane company com- 
menced a second season here until 25th January ; when, 
on the 26th, operas commenced, under the management 
of Mr. Kelly and Signor Storace. Performed two 
nights a week, on which nights the Drury Lane company 
opened the Little Theatre. 1794. Commenced 4th 
January ; Kelly and Storace managers. Opened again 
Cth December. In Lent following, oratorios for one 
night, and then repeated in Concert Room, which was 
supposed the largest in England. Commenced 6th 
December, 1795; Kelly manager; and in this season 
part of the walls of the theatre blown down. Concerts 
in the Great Room, twelve for five guineas. Opened 
26th November, 1796 ; Kelly, manager. The boxes at 
the back of the pit altered ; previously called the 
Resurrection Boxes. Opened December 8th, 1798; 
and in 1799, Mr. Taylor (by his counsel, Mr. Leach) 
stated before the Privy Council, when discussing the 
application for a third theatre, that he, Taylor, became 
(on obtaining the licence in 1792) responsible for 
O'Reilly's debts of 30,000/. incurred at the Pantheon. 
Had agreed with the Drury Lane and Co vent Garden 
proprietors for 11,500/. they should not act Italian 
operas ; and to purchase Killigrew's dormant patent, for 
5,000f. N.B. This was never fulfilled, as Drury Lane 
company have Killigrew's patent, which they purchased 



APPENDIX. 



365 



when they rebuik the present theatre. ISO 0. The 
opera was announced to open on the 4th January, 1 800, 
but put off, a difficulty arising about the licence, and 
opened on the llth. Opened 4th January, 1801 ; 
and again, 29th December. Mr. Kelly superintended 
the musical department. Opened 4th December, 1 802 ; 
acting manager, Kelly; whole under the direction of 
Jewell. May 5th, Hillisberg took leave ; she died at 
Calais, on her way to her mother, in August. January 
27th, 1803. William Taylor, sole owner, sold 'to Francis 
Goold, Esq. a third for 13,3357. ; Goold to be sole 
conductor and manager. Mrs. Billington engaged this 
season, and her brother Weichsell, leader of the band. 
Kelly returned from Italy, with choruses. Jewell 
director. 1804. Season commenced, 14th January. 
The acting manager, Mr. Kelly, under direction of Mr. 
Jewell. By an indenture, dated 7th September, Taylor 
conveyed to Goold, in consideration of 4,165/. seven 
sixteenths of the whole property ; and by another in- 
denture, dated the following day, and having a mortgage 
proviso for redemption, Taylor assigned to Goold nine 
sixteenths, for 5,700/. which included the above 4,165/ r 
1805. Opened 24th November; d'Egville, ballet- 
master. In June, a riot, in consequence of part of the 
ballet being omitted, from the lateness of the hour, being 
Saturday evening. The riot continued till half-past two 
on Sunday morning, and the damage alleged to amount 
to 5,000/. The military were called in. From that 
period, the curtain dropped, on a Saturday night, at 
twelve o'clock, by order of the Bishop of London.. 
VOL. II. s 



366 



APPENDIX. 



Opened December 7th. Billington, Storace, Braham, 
&c. engaged. Leader of the band, Weichsell ; stage- 
manager, Kelly; treasurer, Jewell. 1806. Opened 13th 
December. Jewell, treasurer ; Kelly, stage-manager, 
who officially stated, that Madame Catalani and her 
husband were not objects of suspicion to Government. 
1807. January 17th, Mr. Francis Goold, the principal 
proprietor and mortgagee, died. The subscription this 
season stated to be 23,000/. and the receipt at the doors, 
17,000/. On the death of Mr. Goold, management 
resumed by Mr. Taylor. 1808. Opened 2nd January ; 
J. H. d'Egville, stage-manager. The theatre newly 
decorated. March 8th, Mr. Waters advertised, he 
would not be responsible for any debts contracted by 
Taylor, as Mr. Goold's executor. 1809-12. These 
seasons were well conducted, principally under the 
influence or guidance of Mr. Waters. 1812. January 
20th, the sheriffs sold part of Taylor's property to raise 
1,400/. 1813. December llth, the Lord Chancellor 
ordered the whole of Goold's property to be sold, and 
that Taylor should not interfere in the management. 
1814. December 29th, Mr. Waters, as proprietor, 
advertised the opera would not open until a manager 
was appointed by the Lord Chancellor. March 12, Mr. 
Waters advertised he was legally appointed sole manager ; 
and the house would open as soon as possible. Opened 
April 16th. March 8th, Goold's share in the Opera 
House put up for sale, and Mr. Waters the highest 
bidder for the seven-sixteenths, at 35,000/. he still 
having a mortgage lien on it of 22,600/. 1815. January 



APPENDIX. 367 

10th, opened under the efficient management of Mr. 
Waters; and the same, following season. 1816. 
September 1 7th. In consequence of a further decree of 
the Lord Chancellor, the former sale was rescinded, and 
the whole property purchased this day by Mr. Waters, 
for 70,150/. who continued the management to the end 
of the season 1820 T 21. 1821. Mr. John Ebers, of 
New Bond Street, bookseller, commenced the winter- 
season, tenant of the Opera House ; and the per- 
formances were conducted under his entire management 
till the year 1823, when he transferred his lease to 
Signer Benelli, for the season. In 1824-5, Mr. Ebers 
became again the lessee of the theatre, under Mr. 
Chambers, who has a large mortgage on the concern. 

There remains only to add, that the interior of the 
theatre, appropriated for the accommodation of the 
audience, consists of four principal tiers of boxes, a 
very large area or pit, and gallery. In each of the tiers 
of boxes are forty-three boxes, making all together one 
hundred and seventy-two boxes. Of that number, 
there are in the pit-tier, eighteen ; on the ground-tier, 
seventeen ; on the one-pair, fourteen ; and on the two- 
pair, nineteen boxes ; making in the whole, sixty-eight 
boxes, all private and distinct property till the year 
1825. 



FIXIS. 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY T. BRETTELL, RUPERT STREET, HAYMARKKT. 



M- 



n 






&u 



a 






m 








' 




wirm 



. iM ;i^*U:;; . ' feK fe^gl 
*i*?^2^IU^:^ -* l v rS^ ' &** 




m-^v 



SSS 



J.M 



:"v/v V-^v-v,:; 
&> *& : %tm 







