The nuns of Santa Clara were engaged at public vespers when R. and myself, for the first time, by mere accident strolled into the chapel of the convent. The  chapel was perfectly bare of  worshippers;  its  pavement  cold, its walls damp;  here  and there,  in niches,  were  images of  the Saviour, clad in tawdry, tarnished finery; recesses in various parts contained the monuments of the dead, with the dim lamp burning more dimly in the gloom of the pile. At the eastern end stood a highly-ornamented  altar,  of  marble, raised upon a platform of  six or seven steps ascent,  and  ornamented,  as  altars  always  are in Roman Catholic  churches,  with silver  candlesticks,  embroidered  drapery, garlands, and wax images of the Virgin and Child.  We had scarcely trod the stone floor of the chapel, and taken off our hats, when we were startled by a sudden peal from an organ, placed somewhere out of sight, playing a voluntary; this, however, very soon was changed into an anthem, accompanied by the sweetest notes of  female voices.  We stood in mute wonder, for though we heard much, we could see nothing.
At the west end of the chapel, in the wall, was a large, square iron grating, about six feet wide, and behind which a curtain was dropt, so as completely to screen whatever was in the interior or beyond it. As soon, however, as the musical sounds had ceased, this curtain was drawn up, and then, through the grating, were to be seen some dozen females, engaged in silent worship on their knees, in a gloomy-looking sort of choir.   The scene was one of deep interest; the rich, full, sweet notes of the organ, stealing round  a vaulted roof, and mingled with the melody of harmonious voices, attuned to sacred music; the devout movements of the penitents ; their chaste and sable dresses, according so well with the pervading gloom; "the dim religious light" within, that contrasted so strongly with the external evening light, visible at the very door of the chapel: these were sufficient to make a deep and solemn impression on the feelings.
The organ stopped, the voices died  away, figure  after  figure  within  the grating glided noiselessly from the sight in succession; no word was spoken, no gesture seen, no sound heard but the transient rustling of a dress.
