The band or chapelle as it is called consists of about 24 and is altogether most excellent but the first Violin everybody will have it is the best in Europe for an Adagio. He is a little humpbacked man and his name is | | He has had great offers from England and other countries but the Duke pays him handsomely and gives him apartments in the palace and besides he is married to a Courlandish woman...

After the Dss's concerto came another full piece; which I shall pass over: but then came next a Violin Concerto by this | | The D. and Dss and all the company now but the old lady drew as near as possible and Baron Medern who understand once more for all is the Dss's father pushed me through before all to be close to the music stand telling me that otherwise I should loose a great deal.

The Music was the man's own composing. It began with I believe a Symphony which had the effect upon me which you know pleasing music always has. My Spirits were raised up to the tip top and I was most perfectly delighted. This was with the Symphony but when he began the Adagio I was scarcely able to bear it. The most exquisite delicacy with which he played the piano together with the turn of the air, affected me so much that it was no longer a pleasure to hear it and I was most heartily glad when there came a forte to give me a respite, upon another change to the piano. I was so affected that I pressed my hat which I had under my arm to a nothing. My hands which I stuffed into my breeches pockets were as it were so convulsed that I could not keep them still but clenched my fists just as cats do their paws when they receive an great pleasure from being made much of. I perceived the eyes of the D. and Dss and some of the company upon me, and was unwilling they should see how I was affected which increased the violence of my sensations so that I became all of a sudden in a violent perspiration and was in very great distress for about the space of a minute till the conclusion restored me to my peace.
