    I was an office-bearer in Trinity Free Church, where we worshipped under “Fire and Brimstone” Howie—a most earnest and devoted pastor, who, I am afraid, thought us all terrible sinners.
    We were very strict in the matter of Sabbath observance. We had an American organ in the church hall, but no musical instrument was permitted in the church itself. A precentor and voluntary choir led the praise. We had no “kist o’ whustles.”
    One Sunday my son asked me, as we came home from church —“Whit wey is there an organ in the Sunday School and no’ in the kirk?” I put that question to the Kirk Session.
    Every one was stumped! We talked and talked, but I got no answer.
    The answer came from Ira D. Sankey. 
    At that time Moody and Sankey were drawing great crowds to their meetings. I was on the committee which organised those meetings. On Sunday morning, from 9.30 till 10.30, we had a sort of singing bee, led by Sankey and his American organ. Conversions were numerous.
    At last I persuaded Moody and Sankey to come to our kirk on a Sunday afternoon.
    The night before, the church officer came to my house to inform me that an American organ had been brought to the kirk, and that though he objected the men had taken it into the church itself. I said “Let it be,” but he wouldn’t risk it.  
    On the Sunday morning the Session was called together and feeling ran high. I said that Sankey played his organ at all his meetings. “Well,” said my colleagues, “he won’t play it here on the Sabbath day.”
    A deputation was sent to Sankey to tell him the decision. “I quite understand.” he answered. “I’ll be there all right.” He came 15 minutes before the time.
    When Dr. Howie and others arrived they found Sankey play¬ing the organ and singing “Hold the Fort, for I am coming.”
    They didn’t dare to stop him. The service went on, people singing as they had never sung before. Sankey hated drawls. Everything was alive.
    On Monday began a movement to have an organ in the church. Even Dr. Howie approved!
