Not having seen Logier's academy of music, I accompanied my friend Mr. George Taylor, and was present at one of those exhibitions that so much occupied the public mind. At not less than twenty piano-fortes were seated near thirty young ladies, some not more than five years of age. The lessons, in which they all joined, were so composed that the difficult and showy passages were given to the best players, and those of lesser talent had parts of easier execution. When the whole was put in motion, the sounds, rising from so many instruments of different make and shape, produced an effect rich and curious. The advantage of this plan, in giving them a correct notion of time, was very obvious ; besides which, every one, even the youngest, felt the importance of their own powers in contributing to the general effect. The second part of the lecture was to show the know ledge the pupils had in harmony and thorough bass. After several problems had been cleverly performed, as it appeared to me, by a kind of technica memoria, which the system supplied, it was proposed to harmonise an air which any one of the company might choose to produce. The lecturer, turning his eye upon me, for I was sitting in a window-seat and could readily be seen, said, " A gentleman was present who, he hoped, would favour the company and him self, by writing an air upon the board." I was much surprised, and begged to be excused, as not competent to the task. The company, however, insisting upon it, I stepped from the place, and, on being presented with a large piece of chalk, I blundered out eight bars of something like a tune. Half- a-dozen of the little creatures, each with a piece of chalk, flew to the board, and a bass and full harmony were added in five minutes. Each one put in a note here and there, all writing at the same time ; the taller ones reaching over the heads of others. They returned to the piano-fortes, and performed it; a thunder of applause followed, and I was requested to write an additional eight bars as a finish, which was treated with the same skill and expedition. As some persons requested copies, two or three music-writers were employed in transcribing the notes from the board. This terminated the exhibition.