Our Concert proved to be very much the Thing...

     ....Mr Burney... Fired away, with his usual successful velocity, to the amazement and delight of all present...  

     [He] played a concerto of Schobert, and one of my Father's , and a great deal of Extemporary Preluding.

     [M]y Father petitioned the Baroness... and she was at length prevailed with.  She played a Lesson of Schobert.  I think her the best lady player I ever heard.  She is a good musician, - does not blunder or make false steps, - has a remarkable strong left Hand - and plays with such meaning, as well as Execution...

     She... gave her place to Hetty, who, to avoid the appearance of emulation, with great propriety chose to begin with a slow movement, as the Baroness had been Exerting all her Execution.  

     She played your bit of Echard.  And I may safely say that I never heard her play it better, if so well; Merlin's Harpsichord made it divine - and the Expression, feeling and Taste with which she performed it raised a general murmur of applause and satisfaction from all...

     After this she played a very difficult Lesson of my Father's; but she was flurried, and neither did that or herself Justice.  

     ...Miss Harris then consented to sing.

     Her Father accompanied her on the Piano Forte.  She sung a most beautiful song of Sacchini's... She has very little voice, scarce any, indeed, - having neither power, compass, or sweetness, and yet - which is wonderful - the singing gave us all pleasure!  She is extremely well taught, and makes up for the deficiencies of Nature by the acquirements of Art; for she sings with great Taste and feeling, and in an excellent style.  

  ... She...gave us a new and favourite Rondeau  of Rauzzini's, which he sings in the new opera of Piramo and Tisbé.  

    After this followed the great Gun of the Concert, namely a Harpsichord Duet between Mr Burney and my sister...

    They came off with flying Colours - Nothing could exceed the general applause...
 
  What would I give you that you could hear it?  It is not possible for instrumental music to be more finished...
 
    ...Mr Jones... played upon a Harp with new pedals constructed by Mr Merlin...  He plays very well, he is precisely neat, and has a good deal of Execution: but the poor young man has no soul to spare for his playing.  

 