I will say no more, but change the subject, and come to Yesterday, to give you an Account of a little Concert we had, at which Assisted a most superb party of company.  It was occasioned by the desire of Dr King to have Prince Orloff of Russia hear Mr Burney and my sister in a Duet before he left England. . . 
We had no performers but Mr Burney and Hetty,  but a good deal of Company.  So now, Enter his Highness, attended by a Russian Nobleman, and followed by General Bawr.  
. . . He was received by my Father in the Drawing Room.  The Library, where the music was, was so crowded he only shewed himself at the Door, where he Bowed to Mr Chamier, who had met with him elsewhere.  . . . 
Lord Bruce rose and bowed very respectfully to the Prince, and quitting his seat to make way for him, went to the further end of the Room.  'Ah!' cried Prince Orloff, 'milord me fuit!' 
  Mr Brudenal then offered his seat to his Highness, but he would not accept it . . . the Prince at last squatted himself on the corner of a Form, just by Suzette, who as he seemed to shut her in, he called his petite prisonniere.
  Mr Chamier, in a whisper, said that 'I wish Dr Burney would have had Omiah [Omai] here instead of Prince Orloff!'
  The Grand Duet, of Muettel, was then played.  
  Added to the applause given to the music, every body had something to say, upon the singularity of the performers being man and Wife.  
  Mr Boone said to me, 'See what a man and his wife can do together when they live in Harmony!' 
  'O Dr Burney, cried Lady Edgecombe, 'You have set me a madding.  I shall never bear any other music!' 
  Lord Bruce, turning to Prince Orloff, told him that the performers of the Duet were mari et femme.  
  The Prince seemed surprised, and Walking up to Hetty, made her many compliments; and expressed wonder that two such perfomers should chance to
be United: and added 'Mais qu'a produit tant d'Harmonie?' 
  'Rien, mon seigneur,' answered Hetty,; laughing, 'que trois Enfans.' . . . the Prince laughed immoderately . . . 
  Lady Edgecumbe, being obliged to shew herself at Lady Harrington's , retired soon after the last Duet.  


