This morning after chaise hunting I visited Jomelli, Piccini and Signor Baragine to whom I had a letter from Mr. Vyse, which, till now, I have not been able to deliver. I found him a very pretty kind of man, very musical and one of the governors to the conservatorio of S. Onofrio.... After this we went to Lord Fortrose, with whom we were to dine.... There was a very large company - among which Barbella and Ortigano were invited on my account.... After dinner a complete band was assembled in the gallery and we had music there till past 11 o’clock - Barbella pleased me to night much more than before - he is very certain of his tone and has a great deal of taste and expression; if he equalled Giordini in brilliancy and in fulness of tone his playing would be unexceptionable and perhaps superior to most of the players in Europe. Orgitano played the harpsichord pretty well too, and Signor Consorte, amusico, was there to sing. - There was likewise a pretty good solo hautbois. -  We had all given Caffarielli over - when behold he came in high good humour and contrary to all expectation was prevailed onto sing. Many notes in his voice are now thin, but there are still traits in his performance sufficient to convince one of his having been an amazing fine singer. He accompanied himself and sung without other instrument than the harpsichord. Expression and grace with great neatness in all he attempts are his characteristics - both Barbella and he are Bolisari - us[e]s, rather in ruin than otherwise, but what remains of them is but the more precious for it. - Cafarelli said we should have a whole day together, which would still be too little for all we had to say, but upon being acquainted with my resolution of setting out for Rome to morrow night after the opera, he proposed meeting me again with Lord F to morrow morning. It is impossible for any one to do the honours of his house better than Lord F. We were all at our ease and very chearful and happy - and after supper Barbella played several Calabrese, Lecese, and Neapolitan airs, and a lullaby of his own per la Natale which is excellent and was very well expressed.