     I was happy to return to New York City... and immediately began playing weekend jobs. It wasn’t long before I received a call from Billy Mays Band. This was the type of group which attracted young but experienced players of the highest quality.
    The band leader was Buddy Lester, the singer-actor, a good guy, but also a practical joker. I don’t remember if this tour was before or after he played one of the lead roles in “Oceans Eleven” with Frank Sinatra. I’d been with the band awhile, when Abe, the 1st trombonist, left, and recommended I take his place on lead. I felt comfortable playing second and didn’t care to take over the hot seat. So when the manager asked, I refused. The night after Abe left... [w]e played about four tunes, when Buddy stepped up to the mike and announced, “For our next selection, I’d like to feature our 1st trombonist Felix Mayerhofer, playing our recording of “Cocktails For Two.”
     I couldn’t believe it. This hit song, recorded by the first Billy Mays band in Hollywood, was famous for its trombone solo. We had never played it when Abe was with the band. Luckily, a few years earlier, I’d copied and practiced the solo when the record first came out. I was counting on my memory to assist me during my new challenge.
     The band began the introduction. I stood up and started playing on a high B natural to begin the difficult solo. Buddy was looking on, waiting for me to fall on my face. As I later found out, he had pulled the same stunt on other 1st trombonists the first night they’d joined the band. I played it flawlessly! After I slid up to the final high D, then finished the solo, the reaction from the guys in the band was incredible. They yelled and stomped. The jazz trumpet player behind me bent over his stand and ecstatically rubbed my head. I received enthusiastic accolades from eveiy guy in the band, and it turned out to be one of the highlights of my career. Buddy got a charge from my playing, too.
     “Now you know why I put you on lead,” the manager said, smiling.
