A number of foreign Princes, among whom were the Due de Deux Fonts, the Elector of Bavaria, &c., with great retinues, came to visit the Emperor, who, upon this occasion, signified his wish to have two grand serious operas, both the composition of Chevalier Gluck, " L' Iphigenia in Tauride,'' and " L' Alceste," produced under the direction of the composer; and gave orders that no expense should be spared to give them every effect...L' Iphigenia was the first opera to be produced, and Gluck was to make his choice of the performers in it. Madame Bernasconi was one of the first serious singers of the day, to her was appropriated the part of Iphigenia. The celebrated tenor, Ademberger, performed the part of Orestes, finely. To me was allotted the character of Pylades, which created no small envy among those performers who thought themselves better entitled to the part than myself, and perhaps they were right; however, I had it, and also the high gratification of being instructed in the part by the composer himself...L' Iphigenia was soon put into rehearsal, and a 
corps de ballet engaged for the incidental dances belonging to the piece. The ballet-master was Monsieur De Camp, the uncle of that excellent actress, and accomplished and deserving woman, Mrs. Charles Kemble. Gluck superintended the rehearsals, with his powdered wig, and gold-headed cane ; the orchestra and choruses were augmented, and all the parts were well filled. 
The second opera was Alceste, which was got up with magnificence and splendour, worthy an Imperial Court. 

For describing the strongest passions in music, and proving grand dramatic effect, in my opinion, no man ever equalled Gluck lie was a great painter of music; perhaps the expression is far fetched, and may not be allowable, but I speak from my own feelings, and the sensation his descriptive music always produced on me. For example, I never could hear, without tears, the dream of Orestes, in Iphigenia : when in sleep, he prays the gods to give a ray of peace to the parricide Orestes. What can be more expressive of -deep and dark despair? And the fine chorus of the demons who surround his couch, with the ghost of his mother, produced in me a feeling of horror, mixed with delight. 