At supper, Miss Waldron was requested to sing; she declined it for some Time... We all, however pressed her very much, and Sir Herbert in particular...
'Do you know no pretty new song?' said her Ladyship.
'No, my Lady, I know hardly any songs, - that is to be sure.  I dare say I know above a Hundred, - but I don't know the music of 'em.'
'Well, any thing, - just what you please,' cried Lady Packington, 'only don't make us wait, - for that is not very well worthwhile.'
'Why then, if you please, my Lady,' said she, 'I'll sing "before the Urchin well could go," - only I can't sing it very well, - so I tell you that before Hand.'
'Is that by way of something new, Miss Waldron?'
Regardless of this question, the poor Girl began: - and never before did I hear any thing so ludicrous: she has not even a natural good voice to excuse her miserable performance: on the contrary, it is a Croak, a squeak, - Nature has been as little her Friend as Art has been her Assistant.
...She could not get on 3 words at a Time, on account of the confusion, for she caught the Laugh, and stopped to join in it; and then, like a Noodle, the moment she recovered her own Countenance, with the utmost solemnity, she again began  the song.
Nothing affected her, in the manner any other person would have been affected... she never thought of stopping it by ceasing to sing...  Nay, Sir Herbert, though the most desirous to hear her, took such methods to render her ridiculous, as must have most cruelly affronted any other character in the World: he burst out a Laughing in her Face; patter her Cheeks, slapped her shoulders, chucked her under the Chin, and exclaimed 'Brava, Lillies and Roses!' perpetually: - but it was all one to her...
The interruptions...in spite of her own Tranquility, were so frequent, that, as she always began again upon any stop of her own, she could get no further than the two first Lines; and the case... appearing desperate, with regard to this song, Sir Herbert desired her to begin another.
'Come, Lillies and Roses, now try Guardian Angels.'...
Guardian Angels was then begun, - but so long was it in performing, that we all retired the moment it was sung.