In this year also a special service for the Knights of the Bath was held in the Abbey. For many years after my appointment Henry the VII. 's Chapel the
Chapel of the great and dignified Order of the Bath was a somewhat desolate-looking place. True, it was used for occasional services and for weddings, but the only connection it seemed to have with the Order of the Bath was the presence of many very old and ragged banners over the stalls of knights long since departed. But at last the Chapel was renovated, the old banners removed, and those of knights of modern times were placed above the stalls, and then, for the first time for a hundred years, a service for the Order of the Bath was held. His Majesty the King attended, and a great number of the Members of the Order. From the old records it appeared that there was an anthem, " Behold how good and joyful a thing it is," that was always sung at the Bath services. The only setting worth doing (by Battishill) was almost certainly the one previously used, but it contained a long and tiresome trio for men. It would have been absurd to include this movement, and yet we were anxious to retain the anthem if possible. Under these circumstances I resolved to adapt the trio, taking its chief phrases (which were extremely melodious) and working them into an unaccompanied chorus. This anthem was sung while the knights proceeded to the Chapel for a short ceremony and returned to the stalls in the Choir. The result was good, and I feel the composer would forgive me, particularly as the emendations have preserved the anthem for use on future occasions. I may quote from a letter the Dean afterwards wrote to me, which serves to show that the music was acceptable :

The Deanery,
Westminster, S.W.
July 22nd, 1913.

DEAR SIR FREDERICK, It all went splendidly! the King sent for me in the robing-room and expressed his great gratification. He said, ' Will you specially
tell Bridge that I liked the music very much, it could not have been better.' The Queen also joined in, and said how very much she had enjoyed the music.
These expressions are some small recompense for all the time and trouble you have bestowed in making the Bath service one of the great successes
of your career. Moreover it was all well timed. May I hope you were as much pleased as I have been at the happy termination of our efforts to produce a service worthy of the Abbey.
Take a good and cheerful holiday !
Yours very sincerely,
HERBERT E. RYLE.