<p>To show the general interest the performance aroused I append an extract from Punch at the time. AT MR. GANZ'S CONCERT He. We are very late, but we are in time for the Fourth Part of this marvellous Symphonic Fantastique. A wonderful man is BERLIOZ. She. Oh, charming! So original! I hope he'll write many more Symphonies. He (with a vague idea that BERLIOZ is no more). Yes, yes! He was a Russian, wasn't he, by the by? She (equally jogged). It is a very Russian name. He (looking at programme). Now for it! Ah! (pretending he knows it by heart) this move- ment illustrates a deep sleep accompanied by the most horrible visions. How admirably those loud sounds of the violoncello express one's idea of a deep sleep ! She (not to be outdone at this game of "Brag"). Yes, yes! Listen! Now he thinks he is being led to the scaffold to the strains of a solemn march. How gloomy, how awe-inspiring are those pizzicato touches on the violins ! He (having got another bit by heart). Grand! Grand! Just hearken to the muffled sounds of heavy footsteps ! It is finished! Oh, massive! Oh, grand! Like a reverie in some old cathedral ! She. It almost moved me to tears. Nothing more exquisitely doleful have I ever heard! Third Party (leaning over). How do you do? How are you? I saw you come in. How late you were ! But you were in time for that third lovely movement. He and She. Oh, grand! Magnificent! Superb! Solemn !&nbsp;Third Party. The light rustling of the trees moved by the wind was so wonderfully ex- pressed! He (amazed). Eh? Third Party. Yes, you noticed it, of course. Did it not conduce to bring to your heart an unaccustomed placidity, and to give to your ideas a more radiant hue? She (confounded). What? Third Party. Why, the Third Part. He and She. Oh, the Third Party! Third Party. Yes; and now you'll hear the Fourth Part. Now you will hear a deep sleep accompanied by the most horrible visions. Ta! ta! [Exit, and their enjoyment is gone for the Concert. Although some critics gave the work a favourable notice, several papers, and one in particular, cut the Symphony to pieces. This, however, did not affect me, and I repeated it at the next concert. Berlioz had a hard fight in Paris to get his works performed, and it was only after his death that he was fully appreciated by his compatriots. Without being egotistical, I must confess to feeling proud of having brought his Symphonic Fantastique before the English public.</p>